
      ORIGINAL CAST OF CHARACTERS. [Our American Cousin.]
    </h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     Laura Keene's Theatre, New York, October 15, 1858.

     Lord Dundreary                Mr. E. A. Sothern
     Asa Trenchard                 ''  Jos. Jefferson
     Sir Edward Trenchard          ''  E. Varrey
     Capt. De Boots                ''  Clinton
     Harry Vernon                  ''  M. Levick
     Abel Murcott                  ''  C.W. Couldock
     Mr. Coyle                     ''  J.G. Burnett
     Mr. Buddicombe                ''  McDouall
     Mr. Binny                     ''  Peters
     John Wickens                  ''  Brown
     Mrs. Mountchessington         Miss Mary Wells
     Florence Trenchard            ''   Laura Keene
     Mary                          ''   Sara Stevens
     Augusta                       ''   E. Germon
     Georgina                      Mrs. Sothern
     Sharpe                        Miss Flynn
     Skillet                       Mrs. M. Levick

<h2>
      ACT I.
    </h2>
<p>
      Scene 1—Drawing room in 3. Trenchard Manor, C. D., backed by
      interior, discovering table with luncheon spread. Large French window, R.
      3 E., through which a fine English park is seen. Open archway, L. 3 E. Set
      balcony behind. Table, R., books and papers on it. Work basket containing
      wools and embroidery frame. A fashionable arm chair and sofa, L. 2 E.,
      small table near C. D. Stage handsomely set, costly furniture, carpet
      down, chairs, etc.
    </p>
<p>
      Buddicombe discovered on sofa reading newspaper. Skillet and Sharpe busily
      arranging furniture as curtain rises.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Sharpe</b></big> I don't know how you may feel as a visitor, Mr.
      Buddicombe, but I think this is a most uncomfortable family.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Bud</b></big> Very uncomfortable. I have no curtain to my bed.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Skil</b></big> And no wine at the second table.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Sharpe</b></big> And meaner servants I never seed.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Bud</b></big> I'm afraid Sir Edward is in a queer strait.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Skil</b></big> Yes, for only this morning, Mr. Binny, Mrs. Skillet
      says he—
    </p>
<p>
      Enter Binny, L. 3 E.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Binny</b></big> Mind your hown business instead hof your betters.
      I'm disgusted with you lower servants. When the wine merchant presents his
      bills, you men, hear me, say he's been pressing for the last six months,
      do you?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Skil</b></big> Nor I, that the last year's milliner's bills have
      not been paid.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Sharpe</b></big> Nor I, that Miss Florence has not had no new
      dresses from London all winter.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Bud</b></big> And I can solemnly swear that his lordship's hair
      has been faithfully bound in this bosom.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Binny</b></big> That'll do, that'll do; but to remember to check
      hidle curiosity is the first duty of men hin livery. Ha, 'ere hare the
      letters.
    </p>
<p>
      Enter John Wickens, L. 3 E., with green baize bag. Binny takes bag, takes
      out letters and reads addresses.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Binny</b></big> Hah! bill, of course, Miss Augusta, Mrs.
      Mountchessington, Lord Dundreary, Capt. De Boots, Miss Georgina
      Mountchessington, Lieut. Vernon, ah! that's from the admiralty. What's
      this? Miss Florence Trenchard, via Brattleboro', Vermont.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Bud</b></big> Where's that, Mr. Binny.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>John</b></big> Why that be hin the United States of North
      Hamerica, and a main good place for poor folks.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Binny</b></big> John Wickens, you forget yourself.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>John</b></big> Beg pardon, Mr. Binny.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Binny</b></big> John Wickens, leave the room.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>John</b></big> But I know where Vermont be tho'.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Binny</b></big> John Wickens, get hout. [Exit John, L. 3 E.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Bud</b></big> Dreadful low fellow, that.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Binny</b></big> Halways himpudent.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Bud</b></big> [Looking at letter in Binny's hand.] Why, that is
      Sir Edward's hand, Mr. Binny, he must have been sporting.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Binny</b></big> Yes, shooting the wild helephants and buffalos
      what abound there.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Bud</b></big> The nasty beasts. [Looking off, R. 2 E.] Hello,
      there comes Miss Florence tearing across the lane like a three year old
      colt.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Sharp</b></big> &amp; <big><b>Skil</b></big> Oh, Gemini. [Run off,
      R. 2 E. Bud. runs off, L. 2 E.]
    </p>
<p>
      Enter Florence, R. 2 E.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> [As if after running.] Oh! I'm fairly out of breath.
      Good morning, Binny, the letter bag I saw coming, Wickens coming with it.
      I thought I could catch him before I reached the house. [Sits R.] So off I
      started, I forgot the pond, it was in or over. I got over, but my hat got
      in. I wish you'd fish it out for me, you won't find the pond very deep.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Binny</b></big> Me fish for an at? Does she take me for an
      hangler?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big>. Give me the letters. [Takes them.] Ah, blessed
      budget that descends upon Trenchard Manor, like rain on a duck pond. Tell
      papa and all, that the letters have come, you will find them on the
      terrace.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Binny</b></big> Yes, Miss. [Going, L. 3 E.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> And then go fish out my hat out of the pond, it's
      not very deep Binny [Aside.] Me fish for 'ats? I wonder if she takes me
      for an hangler? [Exit disgusted, R. 3 E.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> [Reading directions.] Lieut. Vernon. [This is a
      large letter with a large white envelope, red seal.] In her Majesty's
      service. Admiralty, R. N. Ah, that's an answer to Harry's application for
      a ship. Papa promised to use his influence for him. I hope he has
      succeeded, but then he will have to leave us, and who knows if he ever
      comes back. What a foolish girl I am, when I know that his rise in the
      service will depend upon it. I do hope he'll get it, and, if he must leave
      us, I'll bid him good bye as a lass who loves a sailor should.
    </p>
<p>
      Enter Sir Edward, Mrs. M., Augusta, Capt. De Boots, Vernon, L. 3 E.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Papa, dear, here are letters for you, one for you,
      Mrs. Mountchessington, one for you, Capt. De Boots, and one for you,
      Harry. [Hiding letter behind her.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Ver</b></big> Ah, one for me, Florence?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Now what will you give me for one?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Ver</b></big> Ah, then you have one?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Yes, there, Harry. [Gives it.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Ver</b></big> Ah, for a ship. [Opens and reads.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Ah! Mon ami, you are to leave us. Good news, or bad?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Ver</b></big> No ship yet, this promises another year of land
      lubbery. [Goes up.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big>. I'm so sorry. [Aside.] I'm so glad he's not going
      away. But where's Dundreary. Has anybody seen Dundreary?
    </p>
<p>
      Enter Dundreary.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Good morning, Miss Florence.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> [Comes down, L.] Good morning, my Lord Dundreary.
      Who do you think has been here? What does the postman bring?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Well, sometimes he brings a bag with a lock on it,
      sometimes newspapers, and sometimes letters, I suppothe.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> There. [Gives letter. Dundreary opens letter and
      Florence goes up R. Dun. knocks knees against chair, turns round knocks
      shins, and at last is seated extreme, R.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Thank you. [Reads letter.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>De B</b></big> [Reading paper.] By Jove, old Soloman has made a
      crop of it.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> A—what of it?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>De B</b></big> I beg pardon, an event I am deeply interested in,
      that's all. I beg pardon.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Aug</b></big> Ah! Florence, dear, there's a letter of yours got
      among mine. [Gives it.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Why papa, it's from dear brother Ned.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Sir E</b></big> From my boy! Where is he? How is he? Read it.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> He writes from Brattleboro' Vt. [Reading written
      letter.] "Quite well, just come in from a shooting excursion, with a party
      of Crows, splendid fellows, six feet high."
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Birds six feet high, what tremendous animals they
      must be.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Oh, I see what my brother means; a tribe of indians
      called Crows, not birds.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Oh, I thought you meant those creatures with wigs on
      them.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Wigs!
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> I mean those things that move, breathe and walk,
      they look like animals with those things. [Moving his arms like wings.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Wings.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Birds with wings, that's the idea.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> [Reading written letter.] "Bye-the-bye, I have
      lately come quite hap-hazard upon the other branch of our family, which
      emigrated to America at the Restoration. They are now thriving in this
      State, and discovering our relationship, they received me most hospitably.
      I have cleared up the mysterious death of old Mark Trenchard."
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Sir E</b></big> Of my uncle!
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> [Reading written letter.] "It appears that when he
      quarreled with his daughter on her marriage with poor Meredith, he came
      here in search of this stray shoot of the family tree, found them and died
      in their house, leaving Asa, one of the sons, heir to his personal
      property in England, which ought to belong to poor Mary Meredith. Asa is
      about to sail for the old country, to take possession. I gave him
      directions to find you out, and he should arrive almost as soon as this
      letter. Receive him kindly for the sake of the kindness he has shown to
      me, and let him see some of our shooting." Your affectionate brother, NED.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Sir E</b></big> An American branch of the family.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mrs M</b></big> Oh, how interesting!
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Aug</b></big> [Enthusiastically.] How delightfully romantic! I can
      imagine the wild young hunter. An Apollo of the prairie.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> An Apollo of the prairie; yes, with a strong nasal
      twang, and a decided taste for tobacco and cobblers.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Sir E</b></big> Florence, you forget that he is a Trenchard, and
      no true Trenchard would have a liking for cobblers or low people of that
      kind.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> I hate him, whatever he is, coming here to rob poor
      cousin Mary of her grandmother's guineas.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Sir E</b></big> Florence, how often must I request you not to
      speak of Mary Meredith as your cousin?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Why, she is my cousin, is she not? Besides she
      presides over her milk pail like a duchess playing dairymaid. [Sir E. goes
      up.] Ah! Papa won't hear me speak of my poor cousin, and then I'm so fond
      of syllabubs. Dundreary, do you know what syllabubs are?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Oh, yeth, I know what syllabubs is—yeth—yeth.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Why, I don't believe you do know what they are.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Not know what syllabubs are? That's a good idea. Why
      they are—syllabubs are—they are only babies, idiotic children;
      that's a good idea, that's good. [Bumps head against Florence.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> No, it's not a bit like the idea. What you mean are
      called cherubims.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> What, those things that look like oranges, with
      wings on them?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Not a bit like it. Well, after luncheon you must go
      with me and I'll introduce you to my cousin Mary and syllabubs.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> I never saw Mr. Syllabubs, I am sure.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Well, now, don't forget.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> I never can forget—when I can recollect.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Then recollect that you have an appointment with me
      after luncheon.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Yeth, yeth.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Well, what have you after luncheon?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Well, sometimes I have a glass of brandy with an egg
      in it, sometimes a run 'round the duck-pond, sometimes a game of checkers—that's
      for exercise, and perhaps a game of billiards.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> No, no; you have with me after luncheon, an ap—an
      ap—
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> An ap— an ap—
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> An ap—an appoint—appointment.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> An ointment, that's the idea. [Knocks against De
      Boots as they go up stage.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mrs M</b></big> [Aside.] That artful girl has designs upon Lord
      Dundreary. Augusta, dear, go and see how your poor, dear sister is this
      morning.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Aug</b></big> Yes, mamma. [Exit, L. 1 E.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mrs M</b></big> She is a great sufferer, my dear.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Yeth, but a lonely one.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> What sort of a night had she?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mrs M</b></big> Oh, a very refreshing one, thanks to the draught
      you were kind enough to prescribe for her, Lord Dundreary.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> What! Has Lord Dundreary been prescribing for
      Georgina?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Yeth. You see I gave her a draught that cured the
      effect of the draught, and that draught was a draft that didn't pay the
      doctor's bill. Didn't that draught—
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Good gracious! what a number of draughts. You have
      almost a game of draughts.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Ha! ha! ha!
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> What's the matter?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> That wath a joke, that wath.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Where's the joke? [Dundreary screams and turns to
      Mrs. M.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mrs M</b></big> No.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> She don't see it. Don't you see—a game of
      drafts—pieces of wound wood on square pieces of leather. That's the
      idea. Now, I want to put your brains to the test. I want to ask you a
      whime.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> A whime, what's that?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> A whime is a widdle, you know.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> A widdle!
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Yeth; one of those things, like—why is so and
      so or somebody like somebody else.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Oh, I see, you mean a conundrum.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Yeth, a drum, that's the idea. What is it gives a
      cold in the head, cures a cold, pays the doctor's bill and makes the
      home-guard look for substitutes? [Florence repeats it.] Yeth, do you give
      it up?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Yes.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Well, I'll tell you—a draught. Now I've got a
      better one that that: When is a dog's tail not a dog's tail? [Florence
      repeats. During this Florence, Mrs. M. and Dundreary are down stage.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Yes, and willingly.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> When it's a cart. [They look at him enquiringly.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Why, what in earth has a dog's tail to do with a
      cart?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> When it moves about, you know. A horse makes a cart
      move, so does a dog make his tail move.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Oh, I see what you mean—when it's a wagon.
      [Wags the letter in her hand.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Well, a wagon and a cart are the same thing, ain't
      they! That's the idea—it's the same thing.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> They are not the same. In the case of your conundrum
      there's a very great difference.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Now I've got another. Why does a dog waggle his
      tail?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Upon my word, I never inquired.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Because the tail can't waggle the dog. Ha! Ha!
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Ha! ha! Is that your own, Dundreary?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Now I've got one, and this one is original.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> No, no, don't spoil the last one.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Yeth; but this is extremely interesting.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mrs M</b></big> Do you think so, Lord Dundreary?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Yeth. Miss Georgina likes me to tell her my jokes.
      Bye-the-bye, talking of that lonely sufferer, isn't she an interesting
      invalid? They do say that's what's the matter with me. I'm an interesting
      invalid.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Oh, that accounts for what I have heard so many
      young ladies say—Florence, dear, don't you think Lord Dundreary's
      extremely interesting? I never knew what they meant before.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Yeth, the doctor recommends me to drink donkey's
      milk.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> [Hiding laugh.] Oh, what a clever man he must be. He
      knows we generally thrive best on our native food. [Goes up.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> [Looking first at Florence and then at Mrs M.] I'm
      so weak, and that is so strong. Yes, I'm naturally very weak, and I want
      strengthening. Yes, I guess I'll try it.
    </p>
<p>
      Enter Augusta. Bus. with Dundreary, who finally exits and brings on
      Georgina, L. 1 E.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Look at this lonely sufferer. [Bringing on Georgina,
      seats her on sofa, L.] There, repothe yourself.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Geo</b></big> [Fanning herself] Thank you, my lord. Everybody is
      kind to me, and I am so delicate.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Aug</b></big> [At table.] Capt. De Boots, do help to unravel these
      wools for me, you have such an eye for color.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> An eye for color! Yes, especially green.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> [Screams.] Ha! ha! ha!
    </p>
<p>
      All What's the matter?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Why, that wath a joke, that wath.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Where was the joke?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Especially, ha! ha!
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Sir E</b></big> Florence, dear, I must leave you to represent me
      to my guests. These letters will give me a great deal of business to-day.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Well, papa, remember I am your little clerk and
      person of all work.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Sir E</b></big> No, no; this is private business—money
      matters, my love, which women know nothing about. [Aside.] Luckily for
      them, I expect Mr. Coyle to-day.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Dear papa, how I wish you would get another agent.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Sir E</b></big> Nonsense, Florence, impossible. He knows my
      affairs. His father was agent for the late Baronet. He's one of the
      family, almost.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Papa, I have implicit faith in my own judgement of
      faces. Depend upon it, that man is not to be trusted.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Sir E</b></big> Florence, you are ridiculous. I could not get on a
      week without him. [Aside.] Curse him, I wish I could! Coyle is a most
      intelligent agent, and a most faithful servant of the family.
    </p>
<p>
      Enter Binny, L. 3 E.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Binny</b></big> Mr. Coyle and hagent with papers.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Sir E</b></big> Show him into the library. I will be with him
      presently. [Exit Binny.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Remember the archery meeting, papa. It is at three.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Sir E</b></big> Yes, yes, I'll remember. [Aside.] Pretty time for
      such levity when ruin stares me in the face. Florence, I leave you as my
      representative. [Aside.] Now to prepare myself to meet my Shylock. [Exit,
      R. 1 E.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Why will papa not trust me? [Vernon comes down, R.]
      Oh, Harry! I wish he would find out what a lot of pluck and common sense
      there is in this feather head of mine.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Miss Florence, will you be kind enough to tell Miss
      Georgina all about that American relative of yours.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Oh, about my American cousin; certainly. [Aside to
      Harry.] Let's have some fun. Well, he's about 17 feet high!
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Good gracious! 17 feet high!
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> They are all 17 feet high in America, ain't they,
      Mr. Vernon?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Ver</b></big> Yes, that's about the average height.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> And they have long black hair that reaches down to
      their heels; they have dark copper-colored skin, and they fight with—What
      do they fight with, Mr. Vernon?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Ver</b></big> Tomahawks and scalping knives.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Yes; and you'd better take care, Miss Georgina, or
      he'll take his tomahawk and scalping knife and scalp you immediately.
      [Georgina screams and faints.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Here, somebody get something and throw over her; a
      pail of water; no, not that, she's pale enough already. [Fans her with
      handkerchief.] Georgina, don't be afraid. Dundreary's by your side, he
      will protect you.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Don't be frightened, Georgina. He will never harm
      you while Dundreary is about. Why, he could get three scalps here. [Pulls
      Dundreary's whiskers. Georgina screams.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Don't scream, I won't lose my whiskers. I know what
      I'll do for my own safety. I will take this handkerchief and tie the roof
      of my head on. [Ties it on.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> [Pretending to cry.] Good bye, Dundreary. I'll never
      see you again in all your glory.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Don't cry, Miss Florence, I'm ready for Mr. Tommy
      Hawk.
    </p>
<p>
      Enter Binny.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Binny</b></big> If you please, Miss, 'ere's a gent what says he's
      hexpected.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> What's his name? Where's his card?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Binny</b></big> He didn't tell me his name, Miss, and when I haxed
      him for his card 'e said 'e had a whole pack in his valise, and if I 'ad a
      mine 'e'd play me a game of seven hup. He says he has come to stay, and he
      certainly looks as if he didn't mean to go.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> That's him. Show him in, Mr. Binny. [Exit Binny, L.
      3 E.] That's my American cousin, I know.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Aug</b></big> [Romantically.] Your American cousin. Oh, how
      delightfully romantic, isn't it, Capt. De Boots? [Comes down.] I can
      imagine the wild young hunter, with the free step and majestic mien of the
      hunter of the forest.
    </p>
<p>
      Asa [Outside, L. 3 E.] Consarn your picture, didn't I tell you I was
      expected? You are as obstinate as Deacon Stumps' forelock, that wouldn't
      lie down and couldn't stand up. Would't pint forward and couldn't go
      backward.
    </p>
<p>
      Enter Asa, L. 3 E., carrying a valise.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Where's the Squire?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Do you mean Sir Edward Trenchard, sir?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Yes.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> He is not present, but I am his daughter.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Well, I guess that'll fit about as well if you tell
      this darned old shoat to take me to my room.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> What does he mean by shoat?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Binny</b></big> [Taking valise.] He means me, mum; but what he
      wants—
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Hurry up, old hoss!
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Binny</b></big> He calls me a 'oss, Miss, I suppose I shall be a
      hox next, or perhaps an 'ogg.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Wal, darn me if you ain't the consarnedest old shoat
      I ever did see since I was baptized Asa Trenchard.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Ah! then it is our American cousin. Glad to see you—my
      brother told us to expect you.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Wal, yes, I guess you do b'long to my family. I'm
      Asa Trenchard, born in Vermont, suckled on the banks of Muddy Creek, about
      the tallest gunner, the slickest dancer, and generally the loudest critter
      in the state. You're my cousin, be you? Wal, I ain't got no objections to
      kiss you, as one cousin ought to kiss another.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Ver</b></big> Sir, how dare you?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Are you one of the family? Cause if you ain't,
      you've got no right to interfere, and if you be, you needn't be alarmed, I
      ain't going to kiss you. Here's your young man's letter. [Gives letter and
      attempts to kiss her.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> In the old country, Mr. Trenchard, cousins content
      themselves with hands, but our hearts are with them. You are welcome,
      there is mine. [Gives her hand, which he shakes heartily.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> That'll do about as well. I won't kiss you if you
      don't want me to; but if you did, I wouldn't stop on account of that
      sailor man. [Business of Vernon threatening Asa.] Oh! now you needn't get
      your back up. What an all-fired chap you are. Now if you'll have me shown
      to my room, I should like to fix up a bit and put on a clean buzzom. [All
      start.] Why, what on earth is the matter with you all? I only spoke
      because you're so all-fired go-to-meeting like.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Show Mr. Trenchard to the red room, Mr. Binny, that
      is if you are done with it, Mr. Dundreary.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Yeth, Miss Florence. The room and I have got through
      with each other, yeth.
    </p>
<p>
      [Asa and Dundreary see each other for the first time. Business of
      recognition, ad. lib.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Concentrated essence of baboons, what on earth is
      that?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> He's mad. Yes, Miss Florence, I've done with that
      room. The rooks crowed so that they racked my brain.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> You don't mean to say that you've got any brains.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> No, sir, such a thing never entered my head. The wed
      indians want to scalp me. [Holding hands to his head.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> The red room, then, Mr. Binny.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> [To Binny.] Hold on! [Examines him.] Wal, darn me,
      but you keep your help in all-fired good order here. [Feels of him.] This
      old shoat is fat enough to kill. [Hits Binny in stomach. Binny runs off,
      L. 2 E.] Mind how you go up stairs, old hoss, or you'll bust your biler.
      [Exit, L. 3 E.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Now he thinks Binny's an engine and has got a
      boiler.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Oh, what fun!
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mrs M</b></big> Old Mark Trenchard died very rich, did he not,
      Florence?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Very rich, I believe.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Aug</b></big> He's not at all romantic, is he, mamma?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mrs M</b></big> [Aside to her] My dear, I have no doubt he has
      solid good qualities, and I don't want you to laugh at him like Florence
      Trenchard.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Aug</b></big> No, mamma, I won't.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> But what are we to do with him?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Ha! Ha! ha!
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>All</b></big> What is the matter?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> I've got an idea.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Oh! let's hear Dundreary's idea.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> It's so seldom I get an idea that when I do get one
      it startles me. Let us get a pickle bottle.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Pickle bottle! [All come down.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Yeth; one of those things with glass sides.
    </p>
<p>
      Enter Asa, L. 2 E.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Oh! you mean a glass case.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Yeth, a glass case, that's the idea, and let us put
      this Mr. Thomas Hawk in it, and have him on exhibition. That's the idea.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> [Down L. of Florence, overhearing.] Oh! that's your
      idea, is it? Wal, stranger, I don't know what they're going to do with me,
      but wherever they do put me, I hope it will be out of the reach of a
      jackass. I'm a real hoss, I am, and I get kinder riley with those
      critters.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Now he thinks he's a horse. I've heard of a great
      jackass, and I dreampt of a jackass, but I don't believe there is any such
      insect.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Well, cousin, I hope you made yourself comfortable.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Well, no, I can't say as I did. You see there was so
      many all-fired fixins in my room I couldn't find anything I wanted.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> What was it you couldn't find in your room?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> There as no soft soap.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>De B</b></big> Soft soap!
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Aug</b></big> Soft soap!
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Ver</b></big> Soft soap!
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mrs M</b></big> Soft soap!
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Soft soap!
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Geo</b></big> [On sofa.] Soft soap!
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Thoft thoap?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Yes, soft soap. I reckon you know what that is.
      However, I struck a pump in the kitchen, slicked my hair down a little,
      gave my boots a lick of grease, and now I feel quite handsome; but I'm
      everlastingly dry.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> You'll find ale, wine and luncheon on the
      side-table.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Wal, I don't know as I've got any appetite. You see
      comin' along on the cars I worried down half a dozen ham sandwiches, eight
      or ten boiled eggs, two or three pumpkin pies and a string of cold
      sausages—and—Wal, I guess I can hold on till dinner-time.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Did that illustrious exile eat all that? I wonder
      where he put it?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> I'm as dry as a sap-tree in August.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Binny</b></big> [Throwing open, E. D.] Luncheon!
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> [Goes hastily up to table.] Wal, I don't want to
      speak out too plain, but this is an awful mean set out for a big house
      like this.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Why, what's wrong, sir?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Why, there's no mush!
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Nary slapjack.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Why, does he want Mary to slap Jack?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> No pork and beans!
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Pork's been here, but he's left.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> And where on airth's the clam chowder?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Where <i>is</i> clam chowder? He's never here when
      he's wanted.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> [Drinks and spits.] Here's your health, old hoss. Do
      you call that a drink? See here, cousin, you seem to be the liveliest
      critter here, so just hurry up the fixins, and I'll show this benighted
      aristocratic society what real liquor is. So hurry up the fixins.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>All</b></big> Fixins?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> What do you mean by fixins?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Why, brandy, rum, gin and whiskey. We'll make them
      all useful.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Oh, I'll hurry up the fixins. What fun! [Exit, R.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Oh! I thought he meant the gas fixins.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Say, you, you Mr. Puffy, you run out and get me a
      bunch of mint and a bundle of straws; hurry up, old hoss. [Exit Binny, L.
      3 E., indignantly.] Say, Mr. Sailor man, just help me down with this
      table. Oh! don't you get riley, you and I ran against each other when I
      came in, but we'll be friends yet. [Vernon helps him with table to C.]
    </p>
<p>
      Enter Florence, followed by servants in livery; they carry a case of
      decanters and water, on which are seven or eight glasses, two or three tin
      mixers and a bowl of sugar. Binny enters with a bunch of mint and a few
      straws.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Here, cousin, are the fixins.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> That's yer sort. Now then, I'll give you all a drink
      that'll make you squeal. [To Binny] Here, Puffy, just shake that up,
      faster. I'll give that sick gal a drink that'll make her squirm like an
      eel on a mud bank.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> [Screams.] What a horrible idea. [Runs about stage.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Oh, don't mind him! That's only an American joke.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> A joke! Do you call that a joke? To make a sick girl
      squirm like a mud bank on an eel's skin?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Yes, I'll give you a drink that'll make your
      whiskers return under your chin, which is their natural location. Now,
      ladies and gentlemen, what'll you have, Whiskey Skin, Brandy Smash, Sherry
      Cobbler, Mint Julep or Jersey Lightning?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Aug</b></big> Oh, I want a Mint Julep.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>De B</b></big> Give me a Gin Cocktail.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> I'll take a Sherry Cobbler.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Ver</b></big> Brandy Smash for me.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mrs M</b></big> Give me a Whiskey Skin.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Geo</b></big> I'll take a Lemonade.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Give me a Jersey Lightning.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Give him a Jersey Lightning. [As Dundreary drinks]
      Warranted to kill at forty rods. [Dundreary falls back on Mrs. M. and
      Georgina.]
    </p>
<p>
      Closed In.
    </p>
<p>
      Scene 2—Library in Trenchard Manor. Oriel Window, L. C., with
      curtains. Two chairs and table brought on at change.
    </p>
<p>
      Enter Binny and Coyle, L. 1 E.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Binny</b></big> Sir Hedward will see you directly, Mr. Coyle.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Coyle</b></big> Very well. House full of company, I see, Mr.
      Binny.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Binny</b></big> Cram full, Mr. Coyle. As one of the first families
      in the country we must keep up our position.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Coyle</b></big> [Rubbing his hands.] Certainly, certainly, that is
      as long as we can, Mr. Binny. Tell Murcott, my clerk, to bring my papers
      in here. You'll find him in the servant's hall, and see that you keep your
      strong ale out of his way. People who serve me must have their senses
      about them.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Binny</b></big> [Aside.] I should say so, or 'e'd 'ave hevery
      tooth hout in their 'eds, the wiper. [Exit, L. 1 E.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Coyle</b></big> And now to show this pompous baronet the precipice
      on which he stands.
    </p>
<p>
      Enter Murcott, with green bag and papers.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Coyle</b></big> Are you sober, sirrah?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Murcott</b></big> Yes, Mr. Coyle.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Coyle</b></big> Then see you keep so.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mur</b></big> I'll do my best, sir. But, oh! do tell them to keep
      liquor out of my way. I can't keep from it now, try as I will, and I try
      hard enough, God help me!
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Coyle</b></big> Pshaw! Get out those mortgages and the letters
      from my London agent. [Murcott takes papers from bag and places then on
      table. Coyle looks off, R. 1 E.] So; here comes Sir Edward. Go, but be
      within call. I may want you to witness a signature.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mur</b></big> I will sir. [Aside.] I must have brandy, or my hand
      will not be steady enough to write. [Exit, L. 1 E.]
    </p>
<p>
      Enter Sir Edward, R. 1 E. Coyle bows.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Sir E</b></big> Good morning, Coyle, good morning. [With affected
      ease.] There is a chair, Coyle. [They sit.] So you see those infernal
      tradespeople are pretty troublesome.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Coyle</b></big> My agent's letter this morning announces that
      Walter and Brass have got judgement and execution on their amount for
      repairing your town house last season. [Refers to papers.] Boquet and
      Barker announce their intention of taking this same course with the wine
      account. Handmarth is preparing for a settlement of his heavy demand for
      the stables. Then there is Temper for pictures and other things and Miss
      Florence Trenchard's account with Madame Pompon, and—
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Sir E</b></big> Confound it, why harass me with details, these
      infernal particulars? Have you made out the total?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Coyle</b></big> Four thousand, eight hundred and thirty pounds,
      nine shillings and sixpence.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Sir E</b></big> Well, of course we must find means of settling
      this extortion.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Coyle</b></big> Yes, Sir Edward, if possible.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Sir E</b></big> If possible?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Coyle</b></big> I, as your agent, must stoop to detail, you must
      allow me to repeat, if possible.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Sir E</b></big> Why, you don't say there will be any difficulty in
      raising the money?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Coyle</b></big> What means would you suggest, Sir Edward.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Sir E</b></big> That, sir, is your business.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Coyle</b></big> A foretaste in the interest on the Fanhille &amp;
      Ellenthrope mortgages, you are aware both are in the arrears, the
      mortgagees in fact, write here to announce their intentions to foreclose.
      [Shows papers.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Sir E</b></big> Curse your impudence, pay them off.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Coyle</b></big> How, Sir Edward?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Sir E</b></big> Confound it, sir, which of us is the agent? Am I
      to find you brains for your own business?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Coyle</b></big> No, Sir Edward, I can furnish the brains, but what
      I ask of you is to furnish the money.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Sir E</b></big> There must be money somewhere, I came into
      possession of one of the finest properties in Hampshire only twenty-six
      years ago, and now you mean to tell me I cannot raise 4,000 pounds?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Coyle</b></big> The fact is distressing, Sir Edward, but so it is.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Sir E</b></big> There's the Ravensdale property unencumbered.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Coyle</b></big> There, Sir Edward, you are under a mistake. The
      Ravensdale property is deeply encumbered, to nearly its full value.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Sir E</b></big> [Springing up.] Good heavens.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Coyle</b></big> I have found among my father's papers a mortgage
      of that very property to him.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Sir E</b></big> To your father! My father's agent?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Coyle</b></big> Yes, bearing date the year after the great
      contested election for the county, on which the late Sir Edward
      patriotically spent sixty thousand pounds for the honor of not being
      returned to Parliament.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Sir E</b></big> A mortgage on the Ravensdale estate. But it must
      have been paid off, Mr. Coyle, [anxiously,] have you looked for the
      release or the receipt?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Coyle</b></big> Neither exists. My father's sudden death explains
      sufficiently. I was left in ignorance of the transaction, but the seals on
      the deed and the stamps are intact, here it is, sir. [Shows it.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Sir E</b></big> Sir, do you know that if this be true I am
      something like a beggar, and your father something like a thief.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Coyle</b></big> I see the first plainly, Sir Edward, but not the
      second.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Sir E</b></big> Do you forget sir, that your father was a charity
      boy, fed, clothed by my father?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Coyle</b></big> Well, Sir Edward?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Sir E</b></big> And do you mean to tell me, sir, that your father
      repaid that kindness by robbing his benefactor?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Coyle</b></big> Certainly not, but by advancing money to that
      benefactor when he wanted it, and by taking the security of one of his
      benefactor's estates, as any prudent man would under the circumstances.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Sir E</b></big> Why, then, sir, the benefactor's property is
      yours. Coyle Pardon me, the legal estate you have your equity of
      redemption. You have only to pay the money and the estate is yours as
      before.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Sir E</b></big> How dare you, sir, when you have just shown me
      that I cannot raise five hundred pounds in the world. Oh! Florence, why
      did I not listen to you when you warned me against this man?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Coyle</b></big> [Aside.] Oh! she warned you, did she? [Aloud.] I
      see one means, at least, of keeping the Ravensdale estate in the family.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Sir E</b></big> What is it?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Coyle</b></big> By marrying your daughter to the mortgagee.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Sir E</b></big> To you?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Coyle</b></big> I am prepared to settle the estate on Miss
      Trenchard the day she becomes Mrs. Richard Coyle.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Sir E</b></big> [Springing up.] You insolent scoundrel, how dare
      you insult me in my own house, sir. Leave it, sir, or I will have you
      kicked out by my servants.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Coyle</b></big> I never take an angry man at his word, Sir Edward.
      Give a few moments reflection to my offer, you can have me kicked out
      afterwards.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Sir E</b></big> [ Pacing stage.] A beggar, Sir Edward Trenchard a
      beggar, see my children reduced to labor for their bread, to misery
      perhaps; but the alternative, Florence detests him, still the match would
      save her, at least, from ruin. He might take the family name, I might
      retrench, retire, to the continent for a few years. Florence's health
      might serve as a pretence. Repugnant as the alternative is, yet it
      deserves consideration.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Coyle</b></big> [Who has watched.] Now, Sir Edward, shall I ring
      for the servants to kick me out?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Sir E</b></big> Nay Mr. Coyle, you must pardon my outburst, you
      know I am hasty, and——
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> [Without.] Papa, dear! [Enters gaily, starts on
      seeing Coyle.] Papa, pardon my breaking in on business, but our American
      cousin has come, such an original—and we are only waiting for you to
      escort us to the field.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Sir E</b></big> I will come directly, my love. Mr. Coyle, my dear,
      you did not see him.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> [Disdainfully.] Oh! yes, I saw him, papa.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Sir E</b></big> Nay, Florence, your hand to Mr. Coyle. [Aside.] I
      insist.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Papa. [Frightened at his look, gives her hand. Coyle
      attempts to kiss it, she snatches it away and crosses to L.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Sir E</b></big> [Crosses to L.] Come, Florence. Mr. Coyle, we will
      join you in the park. Come, my love, take my arm. [Hurries her off, L. 1
      E.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Coyle</b></big> Shallow, selfish fool. She warned you of me did
      she? And you did not heed her; you shall both pay dearly. She, for her
      suspicions, and you that you did not share them. [Walks up and down.] How
      lucky the seals were not cut from that mortgage, when the release was
      given. 'Tis like the silly security of the Trenchard's. This mortgage
      makes Ravensdale mine, while the release that restores it to its owner
      lies in the recess of the bureau, whose secret my father revealed to me on
      his death bed. [Enter Murcott, L. 1 E.] Write to the mortgagee of the
      Fanhill and Ellenthrope estates, to foreclose before the week is out, and
      tell Walters and Brass to put in execution to-day. We'll prick this
      wind-bag of a Baronet. Abel, we have both a bone to pick with him and his
      daughter. [Murcott starts.] Why, what's the matter?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mur</b></big> Nothing, the dizziness I've had lately.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Coyle</b></big> Brandy in the evening, brandy in the morning,
      brandy all night. What a fool you are, Murcott.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mur</b></big> Who knows that as well as I do?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Coyle</b></big> If you would but keep the money out of your mouth,
      there's the making of a man in you yet.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mur</b></big> No, no, it's gone too far, it's gone too far, thanks
      to the man who owns this house, you know all about it. How he found me a
      thriving, sober lad, flogging the village children through their spelling
      book. How he took a fancy to me as he called it, and employed me here to
      teach his son and Miss Florence. [His voice falters.] Then remember how I
      forgot who and what I was, and was cuffed out of the house like a dog. How
      I lost my school, my good name, but still hung about the place, they all
      looked askance at me, you don't know how that kills the heart of a man,
      then I took to drink and sank down, down, till I came to this.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Coyle</b></big> You owe Sir Edward revenge, do you not? You shall
      have a rare revenge on him, that mortgage you found last week puts the
      remainder of the property in my reach, and I close my hand on it unless he
      will consent to my terms.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mur</b></big> You can drive a hard bargain. I know.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Coyle</b></big> And a rare price I ask for his forbearance, Abel—his
      daughter's hand.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mur</b></big> Florence?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Coyle</b></big> Yes, Florence marries Richard Coyle. Richard Coyle
      steps into Sir Edward's estates. There, you dog, will not that be a rare
      revenge. So follow me with those papers. [Crosses to L.] And now to lay
      the mine that will topple over the pride of the Trenchards. [Exit L. 1 E.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mur</b></big> He marry Florence! Florence Trenchard! My Florence.
      Mine! Florence <i>his wife</i>. No, no, better a thousand times she had
      been mine, low as I am, when I dreampt that dream, but it shan't be, it
      shan't be. [Tremblingly putting papers in bag.] If I can help her, sot
      though I am. Yes, I can help her, if the shock don't break me down. Oh! my
      poor muddled brain, surely there was a release with it when I found it. I
      must see Florence to warn her and expose Coyle's villainy. Oh! how my poor
      head throbs when I try to. I shall die if I don't have a drop of brandy,
      yes brandy. [Exit, L. 1 E.]
    </p>
<p>
      Scene 3—Chamber in 3. at Trenchard Manor. Large shower bath near R.
      3 E. Toilet table with draw, L. 2 E. Small bottle in draw with red sealing
      wax on cork. Asa discovered seated, R. with foot on table, smoking a
      cigar. Valise on floor in front of him. Binny discovered standing by his
      side.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Wal, I guess I begin to feel kinder comfortable here
      in this place, if it wan't for this tarnal fat critter. He don't seem to
      have any work to do, but swells out his big bosom like an old turkey-cock
      in laying time. I do wonder what he's here for? Do they think I mean to
      absquatulate with the spoons? [Binny attempts to take valise—Asa
      puts his foot on it.] Let that sweat. That's my plunder.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Binny</b></big> Will you have the kindness to give me your keys,
      hif you please, sir?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> What do you want with my keys?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Bin</b></big> To put your things away in the wardrobe, sir.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Wal, I calculate if my two shirts, three bosoms,
      four collars, and two pair of socks were to get into that everlasting big
      bunk, they'd think themselves so all-fired small I should never be able to
      crawl into them again.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Bin</b></big> Will you take a baath before you dress?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Take a baath?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Bin</b></big> A baath.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> I suppose you mean a bath. Wal, man, I calkalate I
      ain't going to expose myself to the shakes by getting into cold water in
      this cruel cold climate of yours, so make tracks.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Bin</b></big> Make what?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Vamose!
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Bin</b></big> Make vamose!
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Absquatulate.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Bin</b></big> Ab— what sir?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Skedaddle.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Bin</b></big> Skedaddle?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Oh! get out.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Bin</b></big> Oh! [Going.] If you are going to dress you'll want
      some hassistance.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Assistance! what to get out of my unmentionables and
      into them again? Wal, 'spose I do, what then?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Bin</b></big> Just ring the bell, hi'll hattend you.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> All right, come along. [Binny going.] Hold on, say,
      I may want to yawn presently and I shall want somebody to shut my mouth.
      [Binny hurries off, L. 1 E.] Wal, now I am alone, I can look about me and
      indulge the enquiring spirit of an American citizen. What an everlasting
      lot of things and fixins there is to be sure. [Opens table draw.] Here's a
      place will hold my plunder beautifully. [Sees bottle.] Hallo, what's this?
      [Comes down.] Something good to drink. [Smells bottle.] It smells awful
      bad. [Reads label.] Golden Fluid, one application turns the hair a
      beautiful brown, several applications will turn the hair a lustrous black.
      Well, if they keep on it may turn a pea green. I reckon this has been left
      here by some fellow who is ashamed of the natural color of his top knot.
      [Knock.] Come in.
    </p>
<p>
      Enter Binny, L. 1 E.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Bin</b></big> Mr. Buddicombe, sir, my lord's hown man.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Roll him in. [Binny beckons, enter Buddicombe.]
      Turkey cock number two, what is it?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Bud</b></big> My Lord Dundreary's compliments and <i>have</i> you
      seen a small <i>bottle</i> in the toilet table drawer?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Suppose I had, what then?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Bud</b></big> My lord wants it particly.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Was it a small bottle?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Bud</b></big> A small bottle.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Bin</b></big> Bottle small.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Blue label?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Bin</b></big> Label blue.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Red sealing wax on the top?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Bud</b></big> Red sealing wax.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Bin</b></big> Wax red.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Nice little bottle?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Bin</b></big> Little bottle nice.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Wal, I ain't seen it. [Aside.] If my lord sets a
      valley on it, guess it must be worth something.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Bud</b></big> Sorry to trouble you, sir.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Bin</b></big> [ Aside to <big><b>Bud</b></big>.] What his hit?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Bud</b></big> My lord's hair dye, the last bottle, and he turns
      red tomorrow. [Exit in haste.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Bin</b></big> Orrable, what an hawful situation, to be sure.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> [Aside.] So I've got my ring on that lord's nose,
      and if I don't make him dance to my tune it's a pity.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Bin</b></big> Miss Florence begged me to say she had borrowed a
      costume for you, for the harchery meeting, sir.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Hain't you dropped something?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Bin</b></big> Where?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> What do you mean by the harchery meeting?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Bin</b></big> Where they shoot with bows and harrows.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> There goes another of them, oh! you need'nt look for
      them, you can't find 'em when you want 'em. Now you just take my
      compliments to Miss Trenchard when I goes out shooting with injurious
      weapons I always wears my own genuine shooting costume. That's the natural
      buff tipped off with a little red paint.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Bin</b></big> Good gracious, he'd look like Hadam and Heve, in the
      garden of Eden. [Exit Binny.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Wal, there's a queer lot of fixings. [Sees shower
      bath.] What on airth is that? Looks like a 'skeeter net, only it 'ain't
      long enough for a feller to lay down in unless he was to coil himself up
      like a woodchuck in a knot hole. I'd just like to know what the all-fired
      thing is meant for. [Calls.] Say Puffy, Puffy, Oh! he told me if I wanted
      him to ring the bell. [Looks round room.] Where on airth is the bell?
      [Slips partly inside shower bath, pulls rope, water comes down.] Murder!
      help! fire! Water! I'm drown.
    </p>
<p>
      Enter Skillet, <big><b>Sharpe</b></big>, R. 1 E. Binny, Buddicombe, L. 1
      E., seeing Asa, all laugh, and keep it up till curtain falls.
    </p>
<p>
      CURTAIN. <a id="link2H_4_0004" name="link2H_4_0004">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      ACT II
    </h2>
<p>
      Scene 1.—Oriel Chamber in one.
    </p>
<p>
      Enter Mrs. Mountchessington and Augusta, L. 1 E., dressed for Archery
      Meeting.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mrs M</b></big> No, my dear Augusta, you must be very careful. I
      don't by any means want you to give up De Boots, his expectations are
      excellent, but, pray be attentive to this American savage, as I rather
      think he will prove the better match of the two, if what I hear of Mark
      Trenchard's property be correct.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Aug</b></big> [Disdainfully.] Yes, ma.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mrs M</b></big> And look more cheerful, my love.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Aug</b></big> I am so tired, ma, of admiring things I hate.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mrs. M</b></big> Yes, my poor love, yet we must all make
      sacrifices to society. Look at your poor sister, with the appetite.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Aug</b></big> What am I to be enthusiastic about with that
      American, Ma?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mrs M</b></big> Oh! I hardly know yet, my dear. We must study him.
      I think if you read up Sam Slick a little, it might be useful, and just
      dip into Bancroft's History of the United States, or some of Russell's
      Letters; you should know something of George Washington, of whom the
      Americans are justly proud.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Aug</b></big> Here he comes, ma. What a ridiculous figure he looks
      in that dress, ha! ha!
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mrs M</b></big> Hush, my dear!
    </p>
<p>
      Enter Asa, in Archery Dress.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Aug</b></big> Oh, Mr. Trenchard, why did you not bring me one of
      those lovely Indian's dresses of your boundless prairie?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mrs M</b></big> Yes, one of those dresses in which you hunt the
      buffalo.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Aug</b></big> [Extravagantly.] Yes, in which you hunt the buffalo.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> [Imitating.] In which I hunt the buffalo. [Aside.]
      Buffaloes down in Vermont. [Aloud.] Wal, you see, them dresses are
      principally the nateral skin, tipped off with paint, and the indians
      object to parting with them.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Both</b></big> Ahem! ahem!
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> The first buffalo I see about here I shall hunt up
      for you.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mrs M</b></big> Oh, you Americans are so clever, and so acute.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Aug</b></big> Yes, so 'cute.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Yes, we're 'cute, we are; know soft solder when we
      see it.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Aug</b></big> [Aside.] Ma, I do believe he's laughing at us.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mrs M</b></big> Oh, no, my dear, you are mistaken. Oh! I perceive
      they are appearing for the archery practice. I suppose we shall see you on
      the ground, Mr. Trenchard.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Yes, I'll be there like a thousand of brick.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Aug</b></big> A thousand of brick!
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mrs M</b></big> Hush, my dear! that is doubtless some elegant
      American expression. Au revoir, Mr. Trenchard.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Which?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mrs M</b></big> Au revoir. [Exit with Augusta, R.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> No, thank you, don't take any before dinner. No use
      their talking Dutch to me. Wal, I never see an old gal stand fire like
      that, she's a real old bison bull. I feel all-fired tuckered out riding in
      those keers. I'd like to have a snooze if I could find a place to lay down
      in. [Sees curtain on window, L. E.] Oh, this might do! [Pulls curtain,
      then starts back.] No you don't! One shower bath a day is enough for me.
      [Cautiously opens them.] No, I guess this is all right, I shall be just as
      snug in here as in a pew at meeting, or a private box at the Theatre.
      Hello! somebody's coming. [Goes into recess.]
    </p>
<p>
      Enter Dundreary and Buddicombe, L. 1 E.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Bud</b></big> My lord—
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> [Business.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Bud</b></big> My lord!
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> [Business.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Bud</b></big> Your lordship!! [Louder.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> There, now you've spoiled it.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Bud</b></big> Spoiled what, my lord?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Spoiled what, my lord; why, a most magnificent
      sneeze!
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Bud</b></big> I am very sorry, my lord.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Now that I can speak alone with you, tell me about
      that hair dye. Have you found it?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Bud</b></big> Not a trace of it, my lord.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> If you don't find it, I'll discharge you.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Bud</b></big> Very well, my lord. [Bows and exits, L. 1 E.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Very well, my lord! He's gone and lost my hair dye,
      and my hair turns red to-morrow, and when I ask him to find it for me or
      I'll discharge him, he says, "Very well, my lord." He's positively
      idiotic, he is— Ah! here comes Miss Georgina, that gorgeous creature—that
      lovely sufferer. [Exit, L. 1 E.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> [Looking out.] What's the price of hair dye? Hallo!
      he's coming again with that sick girl.
    </p>
<p>
      Re-enter Dundreary and Georgina, L. 1 E.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Will you try and strengthen your limbs with a gentle
      walk in the garden?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Geo</b></big>rgina No, thank you, my lord. I'm so delicate. Oh, my
      lord, it is so painful to walk languidly through life, to be unable, at
      times, to bear the perfumes of one's favorite flowers. Even those violets
      you sent me yesterday I was compelled to have removed from my room, the
      perfume was too strong for me. I'm <i>so</i> delicate.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Yes, Miss Georgina; but they're very strengthening
      flowers, you know.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Geo</b></big> Yes, my lord, you are always right.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Do you know I'm getting to be very robust?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Geo</b></big> Would I could share that fault with you; but I am so
      delicate.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> If you were robust I should not love you as I do. It
      would deprive you of that charm which enchains me to your lovely side,
      which—which—
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Geo</b></big> Oh, my lord, my lord! I'm going to faint.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> And I'm going to sneeze, you faint while I sneeze.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Geo</b></big> [Taking his arm.] Oh! my lord.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Do you know what a sneeze is?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Geo</b></big> No, my lord.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> She never sneezed. I'll tell you what a sneeze is.
      Imagine a very large spider.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Geo</b></big> [Screams.] Where, my lord?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> No, no, I don't mean a real spider, only an
      imaginary one, a large spider getting up your nose, and all of a sudden,
      much to his disgust, he discovers he has put his foot in it and can't get
      it out again.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Geo</b></big> That must be very distressing.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> For the spider, yes, and not very pleasant for the
      nose.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Geo</b></big> Oh! my lord, do take me to mamma.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> No, you lovely sufferer, let's walk a little more.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Geo</b></big> I can't my lord, I'm <i>so</i> delicate.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Well, then, exercise, imitate that little hop of
      mine. [Hops.] It isn't a run, it's a—
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Geo</b></big> What is it?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> No, it isn't a what is it. Well, let me suppose I
      get you an oyster. [Georgina shakes her head.] Oh! then suppose I get you
      an oyster.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Geo</b></big> No, my lord, I'm too delicate.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> How would you like the left wing of a canary bird?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Geo</b></big> No, my lord, it's too strong for me.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Let me ask you a widdle—why does a duck go
      under water? for divers reasons. Now I'll give you another—why does
      a duck come out of the water? for sundry reasons. No! No! see, you live on
      suction, you're like that bird with a long bill, they call doctor, no,
      that's not it, I thought it was a doctor, because it has a long bill—I
      mean a snipe—yes, you're a lovely snipe. [Exeunt, R.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> [Looking after them.] There goes a load of wooden
      nutmegs. Hello, here comes somebody else.
    </p>
<p>
      Enter Florence, R., with paper.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big>. [Reads.] "One who still remembers what he ought
      long since to have forgotten, wishes to speak with Miss Trenchard."
      Florence scratched out, "on matters of life and death, near the orel, in
      the west gallery," Written upon a dirty sheet of paper, in a hardly
      legible hand. What does this mean; it opens like one of Mrs. Radcliffe's
      romances. Well, here I am, and now for my correspondent.
    </p>
<p>
      Enter Murcott, L.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mur</b></big> Oh! for one minute's clear head, Miss Florence.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> I presume you are the writer of this?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mur</b></big> Yes, I am.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> You address me as an old acquaintance, but I do not
      recognize you.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mur</b></big> So much the better. So much the better.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> I hate mystery, sir; but you see I have come to
      rendezvous. I must know to whom I am speaking.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mur</b></big> As frank as ever. I am Abel Murcott.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Starting back! You?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mur</b></big> Do not be ashamed, I have not the strength to injure
      you, if I had the evil. In this shabby, broken down drunkard you need not
      fear the madman, who years ago forgot in his frantic passion the gulf that
      lay between your station and his own. I am harmless except to my self.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Speak on, sir; I hear you.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mur</b></big> I need not tell you by what steps I came to this,
      you don't know, maybe you never knew, what a maddening thing a passion is
      when it turns against itself. After being expelled from my tutorship in
      this house, I lost my employment, self respect, hope. I sought to drown
      recollection and draw courage from drink. It only embittered remembrances,
      and destroyed the little courage I had left. That I have bread to eat, I
      owe to Mr. Coyle; he employed me as his clerk. You know he has been with
      your father this morning. I have come to tell you my errand; are you as
      brave as you used to be when I knew—
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> I fear nothing.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mur</b></big> I come to tell you of your father's ruin, his utter
      ruin.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> My father's ruin? What? What?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mur</b></big> His estates are mortgaged, his creditors clamorous.
      The Bailiffs will be in Trenchard Manor to-day, disguised as your own
      servants. This much Mr. Coyle has conceded to your father's respect for
      appearances.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Then beggary stares him in the face. Poor father,
      what a sad blow for him. Is that all, sir?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mur</b></big> No; the worst remains.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Go on, sir.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mur</b></big> Coyle knows your father's weakness and as a means of
      escape from ruin to the verge of which he has brought him, he has this day
      proposed for your hand.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Mine!
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mur</b></big> On consideration of settling on you the Ravensdale
      Estate.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> And my father, how did he listen to such insolence?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mur</b></big> You know as well as I do how he would hear such a
      proposal, at first a torrent of rage, then the strong ebb of selfishness
      set in, and he consented to listen to the terms, to view them as something
      to be considered, to consider them.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Good Heavens, can this be true? No, I will not
      believe it of my father, and from such lips.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mur</b></big> You have full right to think this and to say it, but
      mark your father and Coyle to-day. You will then see if I speak truth or
      not.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Forgive my distrust, Mr. Murcott.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mur</b></big> I am past taking offence or feeling scorn, I have
      carried more than can be heaped upon me, but I did not come only to give
      you warning of your danger.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Can you avert it?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> (Coming down between them). Wal, stranger that's
      just the question I was going to ask.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> You here, sir, and listening.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Wal, it wasn't purpose, I went in there to take a
      snooze, I heard you talking and I thought it wouldn't be polite of me not
      to listen to what you had to say. I'm a rough sort of a customer, and
      don't know much about the ways of great folks. But I've got a cool head, a
      stout arm, and a willing heart, and I think I can help you, just as one
      cousin ought to help another.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Well, I do think you are honest.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mur</b></big> Shall I go on?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Yes, we will trust him, go on.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mur</b></big> I found the Ravensdale mortgage while rumaging in an
      old deed box of Coyle's father's, there was a folded paper inside the
      deed. I took both to Coyle unopened, like a besotted fool that I was. My
      belief is strong that the paper was the release of the mortgage that the
      money had been paid off, and the release executed without the seals having
      been cut from the original mortgage. I have known such things happen.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Have ye, now? Well, if a Yankee lawyer had done such
      a thing he would have Judge Lynch after him in no time.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mur</b></big> You can but find that release, we may unmask this
      diabolical fiend and save you.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> But, surely, a villain of Coyle's stability would
      have destroyed the paper, the very key-stone of his fraud.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mur</b></big> I fear so.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Do you, now, wal, you're wrong, you're both wrong. I
      guess you ain't either on you done much cyphering human nature. The key
      stone of their fraud is just the point your mighty cute rascals always
      leave unsecured. Come along with me, stranger, and we'll just work up this
      sum a little, two heads are better than one. Yours is a little muddled,
      but mine's pretty clear, and if I don't circumvent that old sarpint, Coyle—
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Well?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Say I am a skunk, that's all, and that's the meanest
      kind of an animal. [Exit L. 1st E.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> I owe you much, Mr. Murcott, more than I can ever
      repay.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mur</b></big> No, no, no, if you did but know the hope of seeing
      you has roused all the manhood that drink and misery has left me. God
      bless you, Miss Florence.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> No, you don't call me Florence as you did when I was
      the truant pupil and you the indulgent tutor. [Offers her hand.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mur</b></big> No, no; for heaven's sake do not call back that time
      or I shall go mad! mad! mad. [Rushes off, L. 1 E., followed by Florence.]
    </p>
<p>
      Scene 2—Park in 4. Rural cottage, L. 1 E., adjoining which, and
      projecting on stage an inside view of a dairy with sloping roof, painting
      backing to look like milk pans. The whole scene should have a picturesque
      appearance. Garden fence run across back, ornamental gate or archway, R. 3
      E. Pigeon house on pole near dairy, L. C. Spinning wheel inside cottage
      door, one or two rustic benches, R. and L.
    </p>
<p>
      Enter John, R. 3 E., with two milk pails on a yoke, puts them down near
      dairy, then looks off, R. 3 E.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>John</b></big> There they go, that's a bull's eye, I warrant. Dang
      me though, if I wouldn't rather see Miss Mary than this cock robin sports
      yonder, here she comes. Good morning, Miss Mary. [Enter Mary from cottage
      L.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mary</b></big> Oh, Wickens, you are there. How kind of you to help
      me with the milk pails to-day, when all the lads and lasses have given
      themselves a holiday to see the shooting.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>John</b></big> Ah, Miss Mary, you ought to be among then, with a
      green hat and feather, if all had their rights.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mary</b></big> [Laughing.] Nay, ladies without a farthing in the
      world, ought to put aside their ladyships and make themselves: besides I'm
      proud of my dairy here, just help me with this troublesome fellow, steady,
      don't shake it, the cream is foaming so beautifully. There. [John carries
      pan into cottage and returns down, R.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>John</b></big> Now, Miss Mary, what can I do for you?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mary</b></big> Let me see; well, really, I do believe, Wickens,
      I've nothing to do but amuse myself.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>John</b></big> Dang it, Miss, that's a pity, cos I can't help you
      at that, you see.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mary</b></big> Oh! Yes, bring me out dear old Welsh nurse's
      spinning wheel [Exit John into cottage, L. 2 E.] by the side of which I
      have stood so often, a round eyed baby wondering at its whirring wheel.
      [Reenter John with wheel, places it near cottage, L. 2 E.] There, that
      will do famously. I can catch the full scent of the jessamines.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>John</b></big> [R. C.] Anything more, Miss Mary?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mary</b></big> No, thank you, Wickens!
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>John</b></big> [Going.] Good morning, Miss Mary.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mary</b></big> Good morning, Wickens.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>John</b></big> [Returning.] Is there anything I can get for you,
      Miss Mary?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mary</b></big> [Spinning.] Nothing, thank you.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>John</b></big> Dang me if I wouldn't like to stop all day, and
      watch her pretty figure and run errands for her. [Exit R. 3 E., crosses
      behind fence.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mary</b></big> Poor Wickens is not the only one who thinks I am a
      very ill-used young body. Now I don't think so. Grandfather was rich, but
      he must have had a bad heart, or he never could have cast off poor mamma;
      had he adopted me, I should never have been so happy as I am now, uncle is
      kind to me in his pompous, patronizing way, and dear Florence loves me
      like a sister, and so I am happy. I am my own mistress here, and not
      anybody's humble servant, I sometimes find myself singing as the birds do,
      because I can't help it [Song, "Maid with the milking pail," can be
      introduced here.]
    </p>
<p>
      Enter Florence and Asa through gate, R. 3 E.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Come along, cousin, come along. I want to introduce
      you to my little cousin. [Kisses Mary.] I've brought you a visitor, Miss
      Mary Meredith, Mr. Asa Trenchard, our American cousin. [They shake hands.]
      That will do for the present. This young gentleman has carried off the
      prize by three successive shots in the bull's eye.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mary</b></big> I congratulate you, sir, and am happy to see you.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> [Shakes hands again.] Thank you, Miss.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> That will do for a beginning.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> [ Aside.] And so that is Mark Trenchard's
      grandchild.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mary</b></big> Why have you left the archery, Florence?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Because, after Mr. Asa's display, I felt in no humor
      for shooting, and I have some very grave business with my cousin here.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mary</b></big> You? Grave business? Why I thought you never had
      any graver business than being very pretty, very amiable, and very ready
      to be amused.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Wal, Miss, I guess the first comes natural round
      these diggins. [Bows.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mary</b></big> You are very polite. This is my domain, sir, and I
      shall be happy to show you, that is, if you understand anything about a
      dairy.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Yes, by the way, do you understand anything about
      dairies in America?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Wal, I guess I do know something about cow juice.
      [They turn to smother laugh.] Why, if it ain't all as bright and clean as
      a fresh washed shirt just off the clover, and is this all your doin's,
      Miss?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mary</b></big> Yes, sir, I milk the cows, set up the milk,
      superintend the churning and make the cheese.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Wal, darn me if you ain't the first raal right down
      useful gal I've seen on this side the pond.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> What's that, sir? Do you want to make me jealous?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Oh, no, you needn't get your back up, you are the
      right sort too, but you must own you're small potatoes, and few in a hill
      compared to a gal like that.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> I'm what?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Small potatoes.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Will you be kind enough to translate that for me,
      for I don't understand American yet.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Yes, I'll put it in French for you, "petite pommes
      des terres."
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Ah, it's very clear now; but, cousin, do tell me
      what you mean by calling me small potatoes.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Wal, you can sing and paint, and play on the
      pianner, and in your own particular circle you are some pumpkins.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Some pumpkins, first I am small potatoes, and now
      I'm some pumpkins.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> But she, she can milk cows, set up the butter, make
      cheese, and, darn me, if them ain't what I call raal downright feminine
      accomplishments.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> I do believe you are right cousin, so Mary do allow
      me to congratulate you upon not being small potatoes.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mary</b></big> Well, I must look to my dairy or all my last week's
      milk will be spoiled. Good bye, Florence, dear. Good bye, Mr. Trenchard.
      Good morning, sir. [Exit into Cottage.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> [Following her to door.] Good morning, Miss. I'll
      call again.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Well, cousin, what do you think of her?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Ain't she a regular snorter?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> A what?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Wal, perhaps I should make myself more intelligable,
      if I said, a squeeler, and to think I'm keepin' that everlasting angel of
      a gal out of her fortune all along of this bit of paper here.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> What is that? [Takes paper from pocket.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Old Mark Trenchard's will.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Don't show it to me, I don't want to look at it, the
      fortune should have come to Mary, she is the only relation in the direct
      line.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Say, cousin, you've not told her that darned
      property was left to me, have you?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Do you think I had the heart to tell her of her
      misfortune?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Wal, darn me, if you didn't show your good sense at
      any rate. [Goes up to dairy.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Well, what are you doing, showing <i>your</i> good
      sense?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Oh, you go long.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Say, cousin, I guess I've got you on a string now,
      as I heard you say this morning.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Wal, what if you have, didn't I see you casting
      sheep's eyes at that sailor man this morning? Ah, I reckon I've got you on
      a string now. Say, has he got that ship yet?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> No, he hasn't, though I've used all my powers of
      persuasion with that Lord Dundreary, and his father has so much influence
      with the admiralty.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Wal, din't he drop like a smoked possum?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> There you go, more American. No, he said he was very
      sorry, but he couldn't.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> [Taking bottle out.] Oh, he did, did he? Wal, I
      guess he'll do his best all the same.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> I shall be missed at the archery grounds. Will you
      take me back?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Like a streak of lightning. [Offers arm and takes
      her to dairy.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> That's not the way.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> No, of course not. [Takes her round stage back to
      dairy.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Well, but where are you going now?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> I was just going round. I say, cousin, don't you
      think you could find your way back alone.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Why, what do <i>you</i> want to do?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Wal, I just wanted to see how they make cheese is
      this darned country. [Exits into dairy.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> [Laughing.] And they call that man a savage; well, I
      only wish we had a few more such savages in England.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> [Without, R. 2 E.] This way, lovely sufferer.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Ah, here's Dundreary.
    </p>
<p>
      [Dundreary enters with Georgina, places her in rustic chair, R.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> There, repothe yourself.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Geo</b></big> Thank you, my lord; you are so kind to me, and I am
      so delicate.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Yes, you look delicate, dear; how is she this
      morning any better?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> When she recovers, she'll be better.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> I'm afraid you don't take good care of her, you are
      so rough.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> No, I'm not wruff, either. [Sings.] I'm gentle and
      I'm kind, I'm —— I forget the rest
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Well, good morning, dear—do take care of her—good
      day, Dundreary. [Exit through gate.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Now, let me administer to your wants. How would you
      like a roast chestnut?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Geo</b></big> No, my lord, I'm too delicate.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Well, then, a peanut; there is a great deal of
      nourishment in peanuts.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Geo</b></big> No, thank you.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Then what can I do for you?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Geo</b></big> If you please, ask the dairy maid to let me have a
      seat in the dairy. I am afraid of the draft, here.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Oh! you want to get out of the draft, do you? Well,
      you're not the only one that wants to escape the draft. Is that the dairy
      on top of that stick? [Points to pigeon house.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Geo</b></big> No, my lord, that's the pigeon house.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> What do they keep in pigeon houses? Oh! pigeons, to
      be sure; they couldn't keep donkeys up there, could they? That's the
      dairy, I suppothe?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Geo</b></big> Yes, my lord.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> What do they keep in dairies?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Geo</b></big> Eggs, milk, butter and cheese.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> What's the name of that animal with a head on it?
      No, I don't mean that, all animals have heads. I mean those animals with
      something growing out of their heads.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Geo</b></big> A cow?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> A cow growing out of his head?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Geo</b></big> No, no, horns.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> A cow! well, that accounts for the milk and butter;
      but I don't see the eggs; cows don't give eggs; then there's the cheese—do
      you like cheese?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Geo</b></big> No, my lord.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Does your brother like cheese?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Geo</b></big> I have no brother. I'm so delicate.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> She's so delicate, she hasn't got a brother. Well,
      if you had a brother do you think he'd like cheese?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Geo</b></big> I don't know; do please take me to the dairy.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Well, I will see if I can get you a broiled sardine.
      [Exit into dairy.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Geo</b></big> [Jumps up.] Oh! I'm so glad he's gone. I am so
      dreadful hungry. I should like a plate of corn beef and cabbage, eggs and
      bacon, or a slice of cold ham and pickles.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> [Outside] Thank you, thank you.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Geo</b></big> [Running back to seat.] Here he comes. Oh! I am so
      delicate.
    </p>
<p>
      Enter Dundreary.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> I beg you pardon, Miss Georgina, but I find upon
      enquiry that cows don't give sardines. But I've arranged it with the dairy
      maid so that you can have a seat by the window that overlooks the cow
      house and the pig sty, and all the pretty things.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Geo</b></big> I'm afraid I'm very troublesome.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Yes, you're very troublesome, you are. No, I mean
      you're a lovely sufferer, that's the idea. [They go up to cottage door.]
    </p>
<p>
      Enter Asa, running against Dundreary.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> There's that damned rhinoceros again. [Exit into
      cottage, with Georgina.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> There goes that benighted aristocrat and that little
      toad of a sick gal. [Looks off.] There he's a settling her in a chair and
      covering her all over with shawls. Ah! it's a caution, how these women do
      fix our flint for us. Here he comes. [Takes out bottle.] How are you, hair
      dye. [Goes behind dairy.]
    </p>
<p>
      Enter Dundreary.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> That lovely Georgina puts me in mind of that
      beautiful piece of poetry. Let me see how it goes. The rose is red, the
      violet's blue. [Asa tips his hat over his eyes.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> [Repeats.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> [Repeats business.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> [Comes down, takes off hat, looking in it.] There
      must be something alive in that hat. [Goes up, and commences again.] The
      rose is red, the violet's blue, sugar is sweet, and so is somebody, and so
      is somebody else.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> puts yoke on Dundreary's shoulders gently. Dundreary
      comes down with pails.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> I wonder what the devil that is? [Lowers one, then
      the other, they trip him up.] Oh, I see, somebody has been fishing and
      caught a pail. [Goes hopping up stage, stumbling over against spinning
      wheel. Looks at yarn on stick.] Why, what a little old man. [Sees Asa.]
      Say, Mr. Exile, what the devil is this?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> That is a steam engine, and will bust in about a
      minute.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Well, I haven't a minute to spare, so I'll not wait
      till it busts. [Crosses to R., knocks against private box, R. H.,
      apologizes.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Say, whiskers, I want to ask a favor of you.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> [Attempts to sneeze.] Now I've got it.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Wal, but say. [Dundreary's sneezing bus.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> [Takes his hand.] How are you. [Squeezes it.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> There, you've spoiled it.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Spoiled what?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Spoiled what! why a magnificent sneeze.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Oh! was that what you was trying to get through you?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Get through me: he's mad.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Wal, now, the naked truth is—[Leans arm on
      Dundreary's shoulder. Bus. by Dundreary.] Oh, come now, don't be putting
      on airs. Say, do you know Lieut. Vernon?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Slightly.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Wal, what do you think of him, on an average?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Think of a man on an average?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Wal, I think he's a real hoss, and he wants a ship.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Well if he's a real hoss, he must want a carriage.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Darn me, if that ain't good.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> That's good.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Yes, that is good.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Very good.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Very good, indeed, <i>for you</i>.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Now I've got it. [Tries to sneeze.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Wal, now, I say. [Dundreary trying to sneeze.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> What, are you at that again?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big>dreary business. Asa bites his finger. Dundreary goes
      up, stumbles against chair and comes down again.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> I've got the influenza.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Got the what?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> He says I've got a wart. I've got the influenza.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> That's it exactly. I want your influence, sir, to
      get that ship.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> That's good.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Yes, that's good, ain't it.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Very good.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Yes, darn me, if that ain't good.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> For you. Ha! ha! One on that Yankee.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Well done, Britisher. Wal, now, about that ship?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> I want all my influence, sir, for my own w—w—welations.
      [Stammering.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Oh! you want it for your own w—w—welations.
      [Mimicing.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> I say, sir. [Asa pretends deafness. This bus. is ad.
      lib.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Eh?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> He's hard of hearing, and thinks he's in a balloon.
      Mister.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Eh?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> He thinks he can hear with his nose. I say—
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Eh?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big>dreary turns Asa's nose around with his thumb. Asa
      puts his two hands up to Dundreary's.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Now he thinks he's a musical instrument. I say—
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> What?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> You stutter. I'll give you a k—k—k—
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> No you won't give me a kick.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> I'll give you a c—c—card to a doctor and
      he'll c—c—c—
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> No he won't kick me, either.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> He's idiotic. I don't mean that, he'll cure you.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Same one that cured you?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> The same.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Wal, if you're cured I want to stay sick. He must be
      a mighty smart man.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> A very clever man, he is.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Wal, darn me, if there ain't a physiological change
      taking place. Your whiskers at this moment—
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> My whiskers!
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Yes, about the ends they're as black as a niggers in
      billing time, and near the roots they're all speckled and streaked.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> [Horror struck.] My whiskers speckled and streaked?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> [Showing bottle.] Now, this is a wonderful
      invention.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> My hair dye. My dear sir.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> [Squeezing his hand.] How are you?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Dear Mr. Trenchard.
    </p>
<p>
      Puts arm on shoulder. Asa repeats Dundreary business, putting on eyeglass,
      hopping round the stage and stroking whiskers.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> He's mad, he's deaf, he squints, stammers and he's a
      hopper.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Now, look here, you get the Lieut. a ship and I'll
      give you the bottle. It's a fine swap.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> What the devil is a swap?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Well, you give me the ship, and I'll give you the
      bottle to boot.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> What do I want of your boots? I haven't got a ship
      about me.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> You'd better make haste or your whiskers will be
      changed again. They'll be a pea green in about a minute.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> [Crosses to L.] Pea green! [Exits hastily into
      house.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> I guess I've got a ring in his nose now. I wonder
      how that sick gal is getting along? Wal, darn me, if the dying swallow
      ain't pitching into ham and eggs and home-made bread, wal, she's a walking
      into the fodder like a farmer arter a day's work rail splitting. I'll just
      give her a start. How de do, Miss, allow me to congratulate you on the
      return of your appetite. [Georgina scream.] Guess I've got a ring in her
      pretty nose now. [Looks off, R.] Hello! here comes the lickers and
      shooters, it's about time I took my medicine, I reckon.
    </p>
<p>
      Enter, from R. 2. E., Sir E., Mrs. M. Florence, Vernon, Augusta, De Boots,
      Wickens, Coyle, Sharpe, Binny, Skillet, Buddicombe, two servants in
      livery, carrying tray and glasses, a wine basket containing four bottles
      to represent champagne, knife to cut strings, some powerful acid in one
      bottle for Asa—pop sure.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Sir E</b></big> Now to distribute the prizes, and drink to the
      health of the winner of the golden arrow.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> And there must stand the hero of the day. Come,
      kneel down.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Must I kneel down?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> I am going to crown you Capt. of the Archers of
      Trenchard Manor.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> [Aside to Florence.] I've got the ship.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> No; have you?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Sir E</b></big> Come, ladies and gentlemen, take from me. [Takes
      glasses, Starts on seeing me in livery.] Who are these strange faces?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Coyle</b></big> [In his ear.] Bailiffs, Sir Edward.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Sir E</b></big> Bailiffs! Florence I am lost.
    </p>
<p>
      [Florence supports her father. At the same moment Dundreary enters with
      letter and money. Georgina appears at dairy door as Dundreary comes down,
      L. Asa cuts string of bottle, cork hits Dundreary. General commotion as
      drop descends.]
    </p>
<p>
<a id="link2H_4_0005" name="link2H_4_0005">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      ACT III.
    </h2>
<p>
      Scene 1—Dairy set as before in Act 2d, Scene 2.
    </p>
<p>
      [Asa discovered on bench, R. C., whittling stick. Mary busy with milk pans
      in dairy.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Miss Mary, I wish you'd leave off those everlasting
      dairy fixings, and come and take a hand of chat along with me.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mary</b></big> What, and leave my work? Why, when you first came
      here, you thought I could not be too industrious.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Well, I think so yet, Miss Mary, but I've got a heap
      to say to you, and I never can talk while you're moving about so spry
      among them pans, pails and cheeses. First you raise one hand and then the
      other, and well, it takes the gumption right our of me.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mary</b></big> [Brings sewing down.] Well, then, I'll sit here—[sits
      on bench with Asa, vis-a-vis.] Well now, will that do?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Well, no, Miss Mary, that won't do, neither; them
      eyes of yourn takes my breath away.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mary</b></big> What will I do, then?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Well, I don't know, Miss Mary, but, darn me, if you
      could do anything that wasn't so tarnal neat and handsome, that a fellow
      would want to keep on doing nothing else all the time.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mary</b></big> Well, then, I'll go away. [Rises.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> [Stopping her.] No, don't do that, Miss Mary, for
      then I'll be left in total darkness. [She sits.] Somehow I feel kinder
      lost, if I haven't got you to talk to. Now that I've got the latitude and
      longitude of all them big folks, found out the length of every lady's
      foot, and the soft spot on everybody's head, they can't teach me nothing;
      but here, [Whittling.] here I come to school.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mary</b></big> Then throw away that stick, and put away your
      knife, like a good boy. [Throws away stick up stage.] I must cure you of
      that dreadful trick of whittling.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Oh, if you only knew how it helps me to keep my eyes
      off you, Miss Mary.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mary</b></big> But you needn't keep your eyes off me.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> I'm afraid I must, my eyes are awful tale-tellers,
      and they might be saying something you wouldn't like to hear, and that
      might make you mad, and then you'd shut up school, and send me home
      feeling about as small as a tadpole with his tail bobbed off.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mary</b></big> Don't be alarmed, I don't think I will listen to
      any tales that your eyes may tell unless they're tales I like and ought to
      hear.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> If I thought they'd tell any other, Miss Mary, I
      pluck them right out and throw them in the first turnip patch I came to.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mary</b></big> And now tell me more about your home in America. Do
      you know I've listened to your stories until I'm half a backwoodsman's
      wife already?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> [Aside.] Wouldn't I like to make her a whole one.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mary</b></big> Yes, I can shut my eyes and almost fancy I see your
      home in the backwoods. There are your two sisters running about in their
      sunbonnets.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Debby and Nan? Yes!
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mary</b></big> Then I can see the smoke curling from the chimney,
      then men and boys working in the fields.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Yes.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mary</b></big> The girls milking the cows, and everybody so busy.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Yes.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mary</b></big> And then at night, home come your four big brothers
      from the hunt laden with game, tired and foot sore, and covered with snow.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> That's so.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mary</b></big> Then how we lasses bustle about to prepare supper.
      The fire blazes on the hearth, while your good old mother cooks the
      slapjacks.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> [Getting very excited.] Yes.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mary</b></big> And then after supper the lads and lasses go to a
      corn husking. The demijohn of old peach brandy is brought out and
      everything is so nice.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> I shall faint in about five minutes, Miss Mary
      you're a darned sight too good for this country. You ought to make tracks.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mary</b></big> Make what?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Make tracks, pack up, and emigrate to the roaring
      old state of Vermont, and live 'long with mother. She'd make you so
      comfortable, and there would be sister Debby and Nab, and well, I reckon
      I'd be there, too.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mary</b></big> Oh! I'm afraid if I were there your mother would
      find the poor English girl a sad incumbrance.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Oh, she ain't proud, not a mite, besides they've all
      seen Britishers afore.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mary</b></big> I suppose you allude to my cousin, Edward
      Trenchard?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Well, he wan't the only one, there was the old
      Squire, Mark Trenchard.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mary</b></big> [Starting Aside.] My grandfather!
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Oh! he was a fine old hoss, as game as a bison bull,
      and as gray as a coon in the fall; you see he was kinder mad with his
      folks here, so he came over to America to look after the original branch
      of the family, that's our branch. We're older than the Trenchard's on this
      side of the water. Yes we've got the start of the heap.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mary</b></big> Tell me, Mr. Trenchard, did he never receive any
      letters from his daughter?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Oh yes, lots of them, but the old cuss never read
      them, though. He chucked them in the fire as soon as he made out who they
      come from.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mary</b></big> [Aside.] My poor mother.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> You see, as nigh as we could reckon it up, she had
      gone and got married again his will, and that made him mad, and well, he
      was a queer kind of a rusty fusty old coon, and it appeared that he got
      older, and rustier, and fustier and coonier every fall, you see it always
      took him in the fall, it was too much for him. He got took down with the
      ague, he was so bad the doctors gave him up, and mother she went for a
      minister, and while she was gone the old man called me in his room, `come
      in, Asa, boy,' says he, and his voice rang loud and clear as a bell, `come
      in,' says he. Well I comed in; `sit down,' says he; well I sot down. You
      see I was always a favorite with the old man. `Asa, my boy,' says he,
      takin' a great piece of paper, `when I die, this sheet of paper makes you
      heir to all my property in England'. Well, you can calculate I pricked up
      my ears about that time, bime-by the minister came, and I left the room,
      and I do believe he had a three day's fight with the devil, for that old
      man's soul, but he got the upper hand of satan at last, and when the
      minister had gone the old man called me into his room again. The old
      Squire was sitting up in his bed, his face as pale as the sheet that
      covered him, his silken hair flowing in silvery locks from under his red
      cap, and the tears rolling from his large blue eyes down his furrowed
      cheek, like two mill streams. Will you excuse my lighting a cigar? For the
      story is a long, awful moveing, and I don't think I could get on without a
      smoke. [Strikes match.] Wal, says he to me, and his voice was not as loud
      as it was afore—it was like the whisper of the wind in a pine
      forest, low and awful. `Asa, boy,' said he, 'I feel that I've sinned in
      hardening my heart against my own flesh and blood, but I will not wrong
      the last that is left of them; give me the light,' says he. Wal I gave him
      the candle that stood by his bedside, and he took the sheet of paper I was
      telling you of, just as I might take this. [Takes will from pocket.] And
      he twisted it up as I might this, [Lights will,] and he lights it just
      this way, and he watched it burn slowly and slowly away. Then, says he,
      `Asa, boy that act disinherits you, but it leaves all my property to one
      who has a better right to it. My own daughter's darling child, Mary
      Meredith,' and then he smiled, sank back upon his pillow, drew a long sigh
      as if he felt relieved, and that was the last of poor old Mark Trenchard.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mary</b></big> Poor Grandfather. [Buries her face and sobs.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> [After bus.] Wal, I guess I'd better leave her
      alone. [Sees half burned will.] There lies four hundred thousand dollars,
      if there's a cent. Asa, boy, you're a hoss. [Starts off, R. 1 C.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mary</b></big> To me, all to me. Oh Mr. Trenchard, how we have all
      wronged poor grandfather. What, gone? He felt after such tidings, he felt
      I should be left alone—who would suspect there was such delicacy
      under that rough husk, but I can hardly believe the startling news—his
      heiress—I, the penniless orphan of an hour ago, no longer penniless,
      but, alas, an orphan still, [Enter Florence.] with none to share my
      wealth, none to love me.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> [Throwing arms around Mary's neck.] What treason is
      this, Mary, no one to love you, eh, what's the matter? You've been
      weeping, and I met that American Savage coming from here; he has not been
      rude to you?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mary</b></big> On no, he's the gentlest of human beings, but he
      has just told me news that has moved me strangely.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> What is it, love?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mary</b></big> That all grandfather's property is mine, mine,
      Florence, do you understand?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> What! he has popped, has he? I thought he would.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mary</b></big> Who do you mean?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Who? Asa Trenchard, to be sure.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mary</b></big> Asa Trenchard, why, what put that in your head?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Why how can Mark Trenchard's property be yours,
      unless you marry the legatee.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mary</b></big> The legatee? Who?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Why, you know Mark Trenchard left everything to Asa.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mary</b></big> No, no, you have been misinformed.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Nonsence, he showed it to me, not an hour ago on a
      half sheet of rough paper just like this. [Sees will.] Like this. [Picks
      it up.] Why this is part of it, I believe.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mary</b></big> That's the paper he lighted his cigar with.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Then he lighted his cigar with 80,000 pounds. Here
      is old Mark Trenchard's signature.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mary</b></big> Yes, I recognize the hand.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> And here are the words "Asa Trenchard, in
      consideration of sole heir"—etc.—etc.—etc.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mary</b></big> Oh Florence, what does this mean?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> It means that he is a true hero, and he loves you,
      you little rogue. [Embraces her.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mary</b></big> Generous man. [Hides face in Florence's bosom.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Oh, won't I convict him, now. I'll find him at once.
    </p>
<p>
      Runs off, R. 3 E., Mary after her calling Florence!!! Florence!!! as scene
      closes.
    </p>
<p>
      Change
    </p>
<p>
      Scene 2.—Chamber as before.
    </p>
<p>
      Enter Mrs. Montchessington, and Augusta, L. 1 E.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mrs M</b></big> Yes, my child, while Mr. De Boots and Mr.
      Trenchard are both here, you must ask yourself seriously, as to the state
      of your affections, remember, your happiness for life will depend upon the
      choice you make.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Aug</b></big> What would you advise, mamma? You know I am always
      advised by you.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mrs M</b></big> Dear, obedient child. De Boots has excellent
      expectations, but then they are only expectations after all. This American
      is rich, and on the whole I think a well regulated affection ought to
      incline to Asa Trenchard.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Aug</b></big> Very well, mamma.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mrs M</b></big> At the same time, you must be cautious, or in
      grasping at Asa Trenchard's solid good qualities, you may miss them, and
      De Boots expectations into the bargain.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Aug</b></big> Oh, I will take care not to give up my hold on poor
      De Boots 'till I am quite sure of the American.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mrs M</b></big> That's my own girl. [Enter Asa L.] Ah, Mr.
      Trenchard, we were just talking of your archery powers.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Wal, I guess shooting with bows and arrows is just
      about like most things in life, all you've got to do is keep the sun out
      of your eyes, look straight—pull strong—calculate the
      distance, and you're sure to hit the mark in most things as well as
      shooting.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Aug</b></big> But not in England, Mr. Trenchard. There are
      disinterested hearts that only ask an opportunity of showing how they
      despise that gold, which others set such store by.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Wal, I suppose there are, Miss Gusty.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Aug</b></big> All I crave is affection.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> [Crosses to C.] Do you, now? I wish I could make
      sure of that, for I've been cruelly disappointed in that particular.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mrs M</b></big> Yes, but we are old friends, Mr. Trenchard, and
      you needn't be afraid of us.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Oh, I ain't afraid of you—both on you
      together.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mrs M</b></big> People sometimes look a great way off, for that
      which is near at hand. [Glancing at Augusta and Asa alternatively.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> You don't mean, Miss Gusta. [Augusta casts sheeps
      eyes at him.] Now, don't look at me in that way. I can't stand it, if you
      do, I'll bust.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mrs M</b></big> Oh, if you only knew how refreshing this
      ingenuousness of yours is to an old woman of the world like me.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Be you an old woman of the world?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mrs M</b></big> Yes, sir.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Aug</b></big> Oh yes.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Well I don't doubt it in the least. [Aside.] This
      gal and the old woman are trying to get me on a string. [Aloud.] Wal,
      then, if a rough spun fellow like me was to come forward as a suitor for
      you daughter's hand, you wouldn't treat me as some folks do, when they
      find out I wasn't heir to the fortune.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mrs M</b></big> Not heir to the fortune, Mr. Trenchard?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Oh, no.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Aug</b></big> What, no fortune?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Nary red, it all comes to their barkin up the wrong
      tree about the old man's property.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mrs M</b></big> Which he left to you.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Oh, no.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Aug</b></big> Not to you?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> No, which he meant to leave to me, but he thought
      better on it, and left it to his granddaughter Miss Mary Meredith.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mrs M</b></big> Miss Mary Meredith! Oh, I'm delighted.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Aug</b></big> Delighted?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Yes, you both look tickled to death. Now, some gals,
      and mothers would go away from a fellow when they found that out, but you
      don't valley fortune, Miss Gusty?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mrs M</b></big> [Aside, crosses to Aug.] My love, you had better
      go.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> You crave affection, <i>you</i> do. Now I've no
      fortune, but I'm filling over with affections which I'm ready to pour out
      all over you like apple sass, over roast pork.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mrs M</b></big> Mr. Trenchard, you will please recollect you are
      addressing my daughter, and in my presence.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Yes, I'm offering her my heart and hand just as she
      wants them with nothing in 'em.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mrs M</b></big> Augusta, dear, to your room.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Aug</b></big> Yes, ma, the nasty beast. [Exit R.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mrs M</b></big> I am aware, Mr. Trenchard, you are not used to the
      manners of good society, and that, alone, will excuse the impertinence of
      which you have been guilty.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Don't know the manners of good society, eh? Well, I
      guess I know enough to turn you inside out, old gal—you
      sockdologizing old man-trap. Wal, now, when I think what I've thrown away
      in hard cash to-day I'm apt to call myself some awful hard names, 400,000
      dollars is a big pile for a man to light his cigar with. If that gal had
      only given me herself in exchange, it wouldn't have been a bad bargain.
      But I dare no more ask that gal to be my wife, than I dare ask Queen
      Victoria to dance a Cape Cod reel.
    </p>
<p>
      Enter Florence, L. 1 E.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> What do you mean by doing all these dreadful things?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Which things.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Come here sir. [He does so.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> What's the matter?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Do you know this piece of paper? [Showing burnt
      paper.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Well I think I have seen it before. [Aside.] Its old
      Mark Trenchard's will that I left half burned up like a landhead, that I
      am.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> And you're determined to give up this fortune to
      Mary Meredith?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Well, I couldn't help it if I tried.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Oh, don't say that.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> I didn't mean to do it when I first came here—hadn't
      the least idea in the world of it, but when I saw that everlasting angel
      of a gal movin around among them doing fixins like a sunbeam in a shady
      place; and when I pictured her without a dollar in the world—I—well
      my old Adam riz right up, and I said, "Asa do it"—and I did it.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Well, I don't know who your old Adam may be, but
      whoever it is, he's a very honest man to consult you to do so good an
      action. But how dare you do such an outrageous thing? you impudent—you
      unceremonious, oh! you unselfish man! you! you, you! [Smothers him with
      kisses, and runs off, R. 1 E.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Well, if that ain't worth four hundred thousand
      dollars, I don't know what is, it was sweeter than sweet cider right out
      of the bung hole. Let me see how things stand round here. Thanks to old
      whiskers I've got that ship for the sailor man, and that makes him and
      Miss Florence all hunk. Then there's that darned old Coyle. Well I guess
      me and old Murcott can fix his flint for him. Then there's—[Looks
      off, L.] Christopher Columbus, here comes Mary.
    </p>
<p>
      Enter Mary, L. 1 E.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mary</b></big> Mr. Trenchard, what can I say to you but offer you
      my lifelong gratitude.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Don't now, Miss, don't—
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mary</b></big> If I knew what else to offer. Heaven knows there is
      nothing that is mine to give that I would keep back.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Give me yourself. [Bus.] I know what a rude,
      ill-mannered block I am; but there's a heart inside me worth something, if
      it's only for the sake of your dear little image, that's planted right
      plump in the middle of it.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mary</b></big> Asa Trenchard, there is my hand, and my heart is in
      it.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> [Seizes here hand, then drops it suddenly.] Miss
      Mary, I made what folks call a big sacrifice for you, this morning. Oh! I
      know it, I ain't so modest, but that I know it. Now what's this you're
      doing? Is this sacrifice you are making out of gratitude for me? Cause if
      it is, I wouldn't have it, though not to have it would nigh break my
      heart, tough as it is.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mary</b></big> No, no, I give myself freely to you—as freely
      as you, this morning, gave my grandfather's property to me.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Say it again, last of hope and blessed promise.
      [Clasps her in his arms.] Mary, there's something tells me that you'll not
      repent it. I'm rough, Mary, awful rough, but you needn't fear that I'll
      ever be rough to you. I've camped out in the woods, Mary, often and often,
      and seen the bears at play with their cubs in the moonlight, the
      glistening teeth, that would tear the hunter, was harmless to them; the
      big strong claws that would peel a man's head, as a knife would a pumpkin,
      was as soft for them as velvet cushions, and that's what I'll be with you,
      my own little wife; and if ever harm does come to you, it must come over
      the dead body of Asa Trenchard.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mary</b></big> I know it Asa; and if I do not prove a true and
      loving wife to you; may my mother's bright spirit never look down to bless
      her child.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Wal, if I don't get out in the air, I'll bust. [Exit
      hastily R. 1 E. pulling Mary after him.]
    </p>
<p>
      Enter Binny, L. 1 E. Drunk.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Binny</b></big> [Calling.] Mr. H'Asa, Mr. H'Asa! Oh he's gone;
      well, I suppose he'll come back to keep his happointment. Mr. Coyle's
      quite impatient. It isn't hoften that han hamerican has the run of the
      wine cellars of Trenchard Manor, and in such company, too. There's me and
      Mr. Coyle, which is a good judge of old port wine, and he knows it when he
      drinks; and his clerk, Mr. Murcott, which I don't hexactly like sitting
      down with clerks. But Mr. H'Asa wished it and Mr. Coyle hadn't any
      objections, so in course I put my feelings in my pocket, besides, Murcott
      is a man of hedication, though unfortunately taken to drink. Well, what of
      that, it's been many a man's misfortune, though I say it, what shouldn't
      say it, being a butler. But now to join my distinguished party. [Exit, R.
      1 E.]
    </p>
<p>
      Scene 3.—Wine cellar in 3.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Coyle</b></big>, Murcott and Binny discovered. Table L., with two
      cups and bottles. Coyle L. of table, seated. Binny back of table. Murcott
      sitting on barrel, R. Door in flat with staircase discovered, dark. Stage
      half dark. Candles on table, lighted.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Coyle</b></big> A capital glass of wine, Mr. Binny, and a capital
      place to drink it.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> [Without.] Bring a light here, can't you. I've
      broken my natural allowance of shins already.
    </p>
<p>
      Enters D. in F., down stairs.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> [To Murcott.] Is he tight yet?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mur</b></big> Histered, but not quite gone yet.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Coyle</b></big> Oh, Mr. Trenchard, glad to see you, to welcome you
      to the vaults of your ancestors.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Oh! these are the vaults of my ancestors, are they?
      Wal, you seem to be punishing their spirits pretty well.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Binny</b></big> Wines, Mr. Asa? The spirits are in the houter
      cellar.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Coyle</b></big> Oh, Mr. Asa, there is no place like a wine cellar
      for a hearty bout. Here you might bawl yourself hoarse beneath these ribs
      of stone, and nobody hear you. [He shouts and sings very loud.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Oh, wouldn't they hear you? [Aside.] That's worth
      knowing.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Binny</b></big> [Very drunk—rising.] That's right, Mr.
      Coyle, make as much noise as you like, you are in the cellars of Trenchard
      Manor, Mr. Coyle. Mr. Coyle, bless you, Mr. Coyle. Mr. Coyle, why his hit
      Mr. Coyle, I am sitting at the present time, in this present distinguished
      company? I will tell you, Mr. Coyle, hit his because Hi always hacts and
      conducts myself has becomes a gentleman, hand Hi knows what's due to
      manners. [Falls in chair.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Steady, old hoss, steady.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Binny</b></big> Hi'm steady. Hi always was steady. [Staggers
      across to L.H.] Hi'm going to fetch clean glasses. [Exit, L. 3 R.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Now, Mr. Coyle, suppose you give us a song.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Coyle</b></big> [Very drunk.] I can't sing, Mr. Trenchard, but I
      sometimes join in the chorus.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Wal, give us a chorus.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Coyle</b></big> Will you assist in the vocalization thereof?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> [Mimicing.] Will do the best of my endeavors
      thereunto.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Coyle</b></big> [Sings.] "We won't go home till morning." Repeat.
      Repeat [Falls off chair, senseless.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> [Finishing the strain.] "I don't think you'll go
      home at all." Now, then, quick, Murcott, before the butler comes back, get
      his keys. [Murcott gets keys from Coyle's pocket and throws them to Asa.]
      Is this all?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mur</b></big> No; the key of his private bureau is on his watch
      chain, and I can't get it off.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Take watch and all.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mur</b></big> No; he will accuse us of robbing him.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Never mind, I'll take the responsibility. [Coyle
      moves.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mur</b></big> He is getting up.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Well, darn me, knock him down again.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mur</b></big> I can't.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Can't you? Well, I can.
    </p>
<p>
      [Pulls Murcott away. Knocks Coyle down; is going towards D. in F., meets
      Binny with tray and glasses; kicks it, knocks Binny down and exits up
      staircase, followed by Murcott, carrying candle. Dark state. Binny rises;
      Coyle ditto. Blindly encounter each other and pummel soundly till change.
    </p>
<p>
      Quick Change
    </p>
<p>
      Scene 4—Chamber in 1, same as Scene 2.
    </p>
<p>
      Enter Dundreary and Vernon, L. 1 E. Dundreary stops, C., and is seized
      with an inclination to sneeze. Motions with his hand to Vernon.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Ver</b></big> My lord! [Business Dundreary sneezing.] Your
      lordship! [Dundreary same bus. Louder.] My lord!
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> There you go; now you've spoiled it.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Ver</b></big> Spoiled what, my lord?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Spoiled what? why a most magnificent sneeze.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Ver</b></big> I'm very sorry to interrupt your lordship's sneeze,
      but I merely wanted to express my gratitude to you for getting me a ship.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Sir, I don't want your gratitude, I only want to
      sneeze.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Ver</b></big> Very well, my lord, then I will leave you, and this
      gives you an opportunity for sneezing. [Crosses to R.] But in return for
      what you have done for me, should you ever want a service a sailor can
      offer you, just hail Harry Vernon, and you'll find he'll weigh anchor and
      be alongside. [Hitches up breeches and exits, R. 1 E.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Find him alongside? What does he mean by a long
      side? and he always wants to weigh anchor. What funny fellows the sailors
      are. Why the devil won't they keep a memorandum of the weight of their
      anchor? What's the matter with the sailor's side? [Imitates Vernon.] Oh I
      see, he's got the stomach ache. [Exit, R. 1 E.]
    </p>
<p>
      Change Scene
    </p>
<p>
      Scene 5—Library in Trenchard Manor in 3 or 4.
    </p>
<p>
      Enter Buddicombe, R. 1 E., following Lord Dundreary.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Bud</b></big> A letter, my lord.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> [Takes letter.] You may go. [Exit Buddicombe, R. 1
      E. Opens letter.] "My dear Frederick." He calls me Frederick because my
      name is Robert. "I wrote you on my arrival." Why, I never heard from him.
      "But I am afraid you didn't get the letter, because I put no name on the
      envelope." That's the reason why I didn't get it, but who did get it? It
      must have been some fellow without any name. "My dear brother, the other
      day a rap came to my door, and some fellows came in and proposed a quiet
      game of porker." A quiet game of porker, why, they wanted to kill him with
      a poker. "I consented and got stuck—" Sam's dead, I've got a dead
      lunatic for a brother—"for the drinks." He got on the other side of
      the paper, why couldn't he get stuck all on one side. "P. S.—If you
      don't get this letter let me know, for I shall feel anxious." He's a mad
      lunatic. [Exit, R. 1 E.]
    </p>
<p>
      Change Scene
    </p>
<p>
      Scene 6—Coyle's Office in 2. High desk and stool, R. Modern box
      center against flat. Cabinet, L.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> discovered looking over papers on box. Murcott
      looking in desk.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Have you found it?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mur</b></big> No, Mr. Trenchard. I've searched all the drawers but
      can find no trace of it.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> What's this?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mur</b></big> That's a cabinet where his father kept old deeds,
      the key he always carries about him.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Oh, he does, does he? Well I reckon I saw a key as I
      came in that will open it. [Exit, R. 1 E.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mur</b></big> Key, oh, my poor muddled brain, what can he mean!
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> [Re-enters with axe.] Here's a key that will open
      any lock that Hobb ever invented.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mur</b></big> Key? what key?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> What key, why, Yankee. [Shows axe, begins to break
      open Cabinet.]
    </p>
<p>
      Enter Coyle, R. 2 E.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Coyle</b></big> Villains! would you rob me?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mur</b></big> Stand off, Mr. Coyle, we are desperate. [Now seizes
      him.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Here it is a sure as there are snakes in Virginia.
      Let the old cuss go, Murcott.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Coyle</b></big> Burglars! oh, you shall dearly pay for this.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Yes, I'll pay—but I guess you'll find the
      change.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Coyle</b></big> The law—the law shall aid me.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Wal, perhaps it would be as well not to call in the
      law just yet. It might look a little further than might be convenient.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mur</b></big> It's no use to blunder, Mr. Coyle, you are harmless
      to us now, for we have that, that will crush you.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Coyle</b></big> Well, what are your conditions? money, how much?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Wal, we warn't thinking of coming down on your
      dollars. But you have an appointment with Sir Edward at two, haven't you?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Coyle</b></big> Well?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Well, I want you to keep that appointment.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Coyle</b></big> Keep it?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Yes, and that's all I do want you to keep of his,
      and instead of saying you have come to foreclose the mortgage, I want you
      to say, you have found the release which proves the mortgage to have been
      paid off.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Coyle</b></big> I accept. Is that all?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Not quite. Then I want you to pay off the execution
      debts.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Coyle</b></big> What, I pay Sir Edward's debts?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Yes, with Sir Edward's money that stuck to your
      fingers naturally while passing through your hands.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Coyle</b></big> [To Murcott.] Traitor!
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mur</b></big> He knows all, Mr. Coyle.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Coyle</b></big> Is there anything more!
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> yes, I want you to apologize to Miss Florence
      Trenchard, for having the darned impudence to propose for her hand.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Coyle</b></big> What more?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Then you resign your stewardship in favor of your
      clerk, Abel Murcott.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Coyle</b></big> What, that drunkard vagabond?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Well, he was, but he's going to take the pledge at
      the first pump he comes to.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mur</b></big> Yes, I <i>will</i> conquer the demon drink, or die
      in the struggle with him.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Coyle</b></big> Well, anything more?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Yes, I think the next thing will be to get washed.
      You're not a handsome man at best, and now you're awful. [Coyle makes a
      dash at Murcott. Asa catches him and turns him round to R.] Mr. Coyle, in
      your present state of mind, you had better go first.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Coyle</b></big> [Bitterly.] Oh, sir, it is your turn now.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Yes, it is my turn, but you can have the first wash.
      Come along Murcott. [Exeunt, R. 1 E]
    </p>
<p>
      Change Scene
    </p>
<p>
      Scene 7—Library in Trenchard Manor in 3 or 4.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Sir E</b></big>dward discovered seated R. of table.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Sir E</b></big> The clock is on the stroke of two, and Coyle is
      waiting my decision. In giving her to him, I know I shall be embittering
      her life to save my fortune, but appearances—no, no, I will not
      sacrifice her young life so full of promise, for a few short years of
      questionable state for myself, better leave her to the mercy of chance.
      [Enter Florence, R. U. E.] that sell her to this scoundrel; and to myself,
      I will not survive the downfall of my house, but end it thus. [Raises
      pistol to his head. Florence seizes his arm and screams.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Father, dear father, what despair is this? [Sir
      Edward buries his face in his hands.] If it is fear of poverty, do not
      think of me, I will marry this man if I drop dead in my bridal robes.
    </p>
<p>
      Enter Binny, R. 1 E.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Binny</b></big> Mr. Coyle, sir who has come by happointment.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Sir E</b></big> I will not see him.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Yes, yes, show him up, Mr. Binny. [Exit Binny, R. 1
      E.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Sir E</b></big> Florence, I will not consent to this sacrifice.
    </p>
<p>
      Enter Asa, Coyle and Murcott, R. 1 E.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Sir E</b></big> How is this Mr. Coyle, you are not alone?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> No, you see, squire, Mr. Coyle wishes me and his
      clerk to witness the cutting off the seals from the mortgage, which he has
      been lucky enough to find the release of.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Sir E</b></big> Heavens, is it so?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Coyle</b></big> Yes, Sir Edward, there is the release executed by
      my father, which had become detached.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> [To him.] Accidentally.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Sir E</b></big> Saved, saved at last from want!
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Coyle</b></big> Meanwhile I have paid the execution debts out of a
      find which has just fallen in.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Accidentally. It's astonishing how things have
      fallen in and out to-day.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Sir E</b></big> But your demand here? [Points to Florence.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Coyle</b></big> I make none, Sir Edward. I regret that I should
      have conceived so mad a thought; it is enough to unfit me for longer
      holding position as you agent, which I beg humbly to resign—
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> [Aside to him.] Recommending as your successor—
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Coyle</b></big> Recommending as my successor Abel Murcott, whose
      knowledge of your affairs, gained in my office, will render him as useful
      as I have been.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Yes, just about.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Sir E</b></big> Your request is granted, Mr. Coyle.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> And now, my dear Mr. Coyle, you may
      a-b-s-q-u-a-t-u-l-a-t-e.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Coyle</b></big> I go, Sir Edward, with equal good wishes for all
      assembled here. [Darts a look at Murcott and exits, R. 1 E.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> That's a good man, Sir Edward.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Sir E</b></big> Yes.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Oh, he's a very good man.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Sir E</b></big> Yes, he is a good man.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> But he can't keep a hotel.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Sir E</b></big> Mr. Murcott, your offence was heavy.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> And so has been his reparation. Forgive him, papa.
      Mr. Murcott, you saved me; may Heaven bless you.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mur</b></big> Yes, I saved her, thank Heaven. I had strength
      enough for that. [Exits L. 1. E.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> You'll keep your promise and make Mr. Murcott your
      clerk, papa?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Sir E</b></big> Yes, I can refuse nothing; I am so happy; I am so
      happy, I can refuse none anything to-day.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Can't you, Sir Edward! Now, that's awful lucky, for
      there's two gals want your consent mighty bad.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Sir E</b></big> Indeed; for what?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> To get hitched.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Sir E</b></big> Hitched?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Yes to get spliced.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Sir E</b></big> Spliced?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Yes, to get married.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Sir E</b></big> They have it by anticipation. Who are they?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> There's one on 'em. [Points to Florence.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Sir E</b></big> Florence! and the other?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> She's right outside. [Exit, hastily, R. 1. E.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Sir E</b></big> Well, and who is the happy man, Lord Dun—
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Lord Dundreary! No, papa—but Harry Vernon.
      He's not poor now, though he's got a ship.
    </p>
<p>
      Re-enter Asa, with Mary.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Here's the other one, Sir Edward.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Sir E</b></big> Mary? Who is the object of your choice?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mary</b></big> Rough-spun, honest-hearted Asa Trenchard.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Sir E</b></big> Ah! Mr. Trenchard you win a heart of gold.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> And so does Mary, papa, believe me. [Crosses to Asa.
      Mary and Sir Edward go up.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> What's the matter?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> You make me blush.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> I don't see you blushing.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> I'm blushing all the way down my back.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Oh, you go long. [Goes up stage.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Hello! here's all the folks coming two by two, as if
      they were pairing for Noah's ark. Here's Mrs. Mountchestnut and the Sailor
      man. [Enter as Asa calls them off.] Here's De Boots and his gal, and darn
      me, if here ain't old setidy fetch it, and the sick gal, how are you
      buttons? [Dundreary knocks against Asa, who is in C. of stage.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> There's that damned rhinocerous again. [Crosses to
      L. with Georgina, and seats her.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Here comes turkey cock, number two, and his gal, and
      darn me, if here ain't Puffy and his gal.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Sir E</b></big> Mr. Vernon, take her, she's yours, though Heaven
      knows what I shall do without her.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mrs M</b></big> [Rising.] Ah, Sir Edward, that is just my case;
      but you'll never know what it is to be a mother. [Comes down, L. C.]
      Georgina, Augusta, my dears, come here. [They come down each side of her.]
      You'll sometimes think of your poor mamma, bless you. [Aside to them.] Oh,
      you couple of fools.
    </p>
<p>
      [Bumps their foreheads. Dundreary has business with Georgina, then leads
      her to a seat, L.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>De B</b></big> [To Dundreary.] Why, Fred, we're all getting
      married!
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Yes, it's catching, like the cholera.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Binny</b></big> I 'ope, Sir Edward, there's no objections to my
      leading Miss Sharpe to the hymenial halter.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Sir E</b></big> Certainly not, Mr. Binny.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Bud</b></big> [To Dun.] And Skillet and I have made so bold, My
      lord—
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Yes, you generally do make bold—but bless you,
      my children—bless you.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Say, you, lord, buttons, I say, whiskers.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Illustrious exile? [Comes down.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> They're a nice color, ain't they?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Yes, they're all wight now.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> All wight? no, they're all black.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> When I say wight I mean black.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Say, shall I tell that sick gal about that hair dye?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> No, you needn't tell that sick gal about that hair
      dye!
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Wal, I won't, if you don't want me to.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> [Aside.] That man is a damned rattlesnake.
    </p>
<p>
      [Goes up, sits in Georgina's lap—turns to apologize, sits in
      Augusta's lap—same business with Mrs. M, then goes back to
      Georgina.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Miss Georgina. [She comes down.] How's your
      appetite? shall I tell that lord about the beefsteak and onions I saw you
      pitching into?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Geo</b></big> Please don't, Mr. Trenchard, I'm so delicate.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Wal, I won't, if you don't want me to.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Geo</b></big> Oh, thank you.
    </p>
<p>
      [Backs up stage and sits in Dundreary's lap, who has taken her seat.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Miss Gusty. [Augusta comes down.] Got your boots,
      hain't you?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Aug</b></big> Yes, Mr. Trenchard.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> How do they fit you? Say, shall I tell that fellow
      you were after me first?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Aug</b></big> [Extravagantly.] Not for the world, Mr. Trenchard.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> [Mimicing.] Wal, I won't, if you don't want me to.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> [To Mrs M.] Mrs. Mountchestnut.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> [Coming down.] Sir, I haven't a chestnut to offer
      you, but if you'd like some of your native food, I'll order you a
      doughnut?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> I dough not see it.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> [Laughs.] That's good.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Yes, very good.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> For you.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Oh, you get out, I mean the old lady.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> Mrs. Mountchessington, this illustrious exile wishes
      to see you. [Mrs M. comes down.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Wal, old woman?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mrs M</b></big> Old woman, sir?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Got two of them gals off your hands, haven't you?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mrs M</b></big> I'm proud to say, I have.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Shall I tell them fellows you tried to stick them on
      me first?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Mrs M</b></big> You'll please not mention the subject.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Wal, I won't, if you don't want me to. [Backs up;—curtseying;—knocks
      back against Dundreary, who is stooping to pick up a handkerchief. They
      turn and bunk foreheads.] Say, Mr. Puffy. [Binny comes down.] Shall I tell
      Sir Edward about your getting drunk in the wine cellar?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Binny</b></big> You need not—not if you don't like unto.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Wal, I won't, if you don't want me to.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Binny</b></big> Remember the hold hadage. "A still tongue shows a
      wise ead."
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> X Q's me.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Binny</b></big> O, I, C. [Goes up.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> [Comes down, L.] Well cousin, what have you to say
      to us? [Mary comes down R. of Asa.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Wal, I ain't got no ring, to put in your noses, but
      I's got one to put on your finger. [To Mary.] And I guess the sailor man
      has one to put on yours, and I guess you two are as happy as clams at high
      water.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> I am sure you must be very happy.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> Wal, I am not so sure about my happiness.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> Why, you ungrateful fellow. What do want to complete
      it?
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Asa</b></big> [To Audience.] My happiness depends on you.
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Flo</b></big> And I am sure you will not regret your kindness
      shown to Our American Cousin. But don't go yet, pray—for Lord
      Dundreary has a word to say. [Calls Dundreary.]
    </p>
<p>
<big><b>Dun</b></big> [Sneezes.] That's the idea.
    </p>
<p>
      CURTAIN <br/> <br/>
